the body will turn on the tumor and
dissolve it and eat it together with the
diet drug combination almost nobody in
the field knows anything that I'm saying
here and how do I know that because
they're not using these techniques and
there's in their clinics if they if they
understood what I'm saying they would be
transitioning over to this immediately
but they're not
throughout our conversation here we've
touched on a lot of the different pieces
of what your research shows would be the
best treatment currently
that's that is supported by your
paradigm
I think it'd be helpful for people with
the disclaimer it's not follow this
advice and carry your cancer but
from a research perspective as a
disclaimer
what is your research showing at this
point the nuts and bolts because there
is Nuance to all this and you're not
going to get into all the Nuance but
what is the nuts and bolts we know
ketogenic diet is a piece of it getting
into ketosis we know uh stopping the the
glutamine fuel is another big piece of
this but just give us within a few
minutes the nuts and bolts of what the
best research is currently showing
like I said is there any kind of a
cancer out there
anywhere that can survive without
glucose and glutamine because the more
you study every type of cancer and under
every kind of a condition
and you can't find one that can survive
on glucose and glutamine because if you
can find a tumor cell that can survive
on glucose and glutamine then we would
have to reevaluate some of our where we
stand on this I would have to say either
they have a norm is it possible that a
cancer cell could get energy
sufficiently from oxidative
phosphorylation and then we would have
to be uh look at that more carefully is
it so far we haven't found that and and
I think
um as long as we can continue to
interrogate cancer cells and find out
what they're dependent on for viability
then it becomes a clear plan path on how
to kill them or eliminate them from the
body so uh yes we keep we we're not we'd
like to work now get more into the in
lung cancer and breast cancer and colon
cancer cells we've done a lot of brain
cancer and we can't find any brain tumor
that can survive under these conditions
but when I look at the
biology of of colon abreast and bladder
and lung I see the same under the
microscope
from already ultrastructural studies
done by by Pathologists I see the same
abnormalities in the number structure
and function of the mitochondria in a
colon breast and bladder cancer and
whatever as I see in the brain cancer so
so that would tell me for sure that
these guys are probably going to be
dependent on the same fuels as the
breast tumor so we'll just have to take
we have to just go through the whole
list of all the major Cancers and just
show that they know there's no cancer
that can survive and if there is we
really really we really want to know
about it but so far we haven't found
that and as long as you can show that
you have the same kind of a problem and
all these different kinds of cancers
it's pretty heavy evidence to say we we
need to we need to Target those things
and that's based on the mitochondrial
metabolic theory of cancer not on the
gene Theory every one of those cancers
that I mentioned if you look at their
genetic mutations they're all different
from each other
um and yet the field is focusing on the
unique differences in these cancers
because they come out Precision medicine
your unique cancer and all this stuff
that's the kind of buzzwords they they
have a tendency to use on television
when they're inter when they're
um trying to tell you about how
wonderful their treatments are you know
we we have something for your cancer we
specifically if these cancers are all
the same uh very similar then you should
have one treatment treats all
um very with minimal modifications for
one type of cancer versus another so if
we are able to show that they're all
very similar there is no other uh fuel
that they can use there's no other
opportunity for them to stay alive then
the plant path forward becomes more and
more clear
then you know I've shown clearly the
path forward and this can be easily uh
adapted for the clinic easily very very
easily
so this is the this is what we're doing
uh this is what we have to do and keep
doing this and doing it and until we
have not a breath left in our body to
say that this we cannot find any
exceptions to this general rule that
they are dependent on fermentation they
get energy without oxygen therefore that
tells you the plan and the way to attack
and Destroy these cancer cells without
toxicity and harm is it going to be easy
for everybody no why because you have to
be an advocate and a participant in the
own in your own healing process you know
this is the thing people have to know
that if you want to get rid of your
cancer the burden Falls heavily upon
your shoulders okay so and I have the
science to say what you should do but
it's up to you to do to determine
whether or not you want to do that
well even to be preventative and to live
a healthy lifestyle you have to go
against the grain and do your own
research these days
um I think it's pretty clear I I think
it's pretty clear uh what's killing most
Americans uh it's high highly processed
carbohydrate Foods there's no question
about this
um it's a it's what what we put into our
mouth uh that's killing us that's
causing most of the chronic diseases
that we have in our society comes from
what we eat
um it's not our genes believe me it's
our environment and what we eat what we
are putting in our mouth is ultimately
causing an imbalance of the metabolic
homeostasis in our body
obesity okay and then and then somebody
else who may not be obese gets cancer
because that person in that in that
environment that metabolic disturbance
puts him at risk uh for this how do we
how do we change a lot of people are
unaware it's unbelievable how many
people do not know that obesity will
will reduce how long they live on the
planet they don't know that do they it's
unbelievable how many people don't know
that being fat will reduce the life life
expectancy
I'm telling you right now being obese
will reduce your life expectancy on the
planet and especially when you see
little kids that are overweight I mean
those little kids are at now a major
disadvantage of having a long a a
successful longevity every no not
everybody but it's certainly a
significant number of them and it's not
just cancer it's cardiovascular disease
dementia are you kidding me so I told
you the last time they had a big study
on the Mediterranean diet that showed
that you can significantly reduce cancer
dementia and
um obesity
with a Mediterranean it wasn't a
Mediterranean diet it was the
consumption of foods that did not
contain uh highly High poorly nutritious
uh processed carbohydrates that's the
killer highly processed carbohydrates
and they taste good and the problem is
I'm not advocating we get rid of that
stuff all I'm advocating is that every
time that touches your lips you put
yourself at some level of risk that's
your choice though I mean it's
everybody's choice we're not going to
shut down all these fast food joints and
we're not going to do all this stuff but
people have to know that that stuff is
putting us at risk for chronic disease
and for some people that might impact
many people don't care so I mean what
are you going to do people don't care
okay well then you don't care then don't
don't complain about having cancer and
diabetes and all these other diseases
because who did that the pharmaceutical
industry didn't do that to you the
federal government didn't do that to you
you did it to yourself buy it right I
agree with what you're saying but the
point I was trying to make was the fact
that you are going against the grain
when you make different choices because
you know every corner you look there's a
fast food place and processed food is
everywhere in the grocery store and and
you look at even you know the the
government uh food guides and what's
trickling down for people to follow when
it comes to diet
you have to go against the grain and do
your own research to live differently
as as prevention
or treatment we're learning today yeah
yeah I agree I mean it's it's us as you
said from the very beginning cancer is
us uh but but you're right things are
made but we're not going to go down and
shut down all the fast food shops I mean
every now and then I I'll grab a burger
like once every two years and say is it
good oh damn it's unbelievably good I
mean you ever have a Subway sandwich or
one of these things you tremble why
you're just so damn good you know but if
you're eating them every day it's going
to kill you you know but every now and
then it's not going to kill you but um I
hate to be so crude like that but you
know the bottom line is that our society
is unhealthy
uh we are moving into a new phase of our
existence on this planet and its chronic
disease phase and there's a lot of
things we are spending so much money on
Health Care all these chronic diseases
billions and billions of dollars that
could be going into education
infrastructure military it could be
going into things other than trying to
take care of somebody's uh condition uh
that's caused predominantly by the
individual themselves yes uh if you want
to call it taunting by all right the
aroma I mean some of these things are so
I mean you walk by the shop and you say
oh man I got to go in there get a taste
of that you know but but I think
everything is people always say oh you
should be moderate everybody that's true
but how many moderate people do you know
I mean most people are not are not the
kind of moderate kind
um but these are all the kinds of issues
that deviate away from what I'm saying
and what I'm saying is I do the basic
research to say how we can effectively
manage a disease that has wide
implications in society and personal
behavior and these kinds of things but
we have a strategy that could make
things better
and then your questions are opening eyes
to say why why we don't do that or or
start to initiate those kinds of
approaches for management prevention
you know I think most of us that know we
should do and should not do but I I
think that management is another issue
as you said a person becomes desperate
they have stage four or something and
now they don't have much time left and
they want to do something that's going
to help them and and that's where uh our
our research comes in to say there are
things you can do and it would be
wonderful if you could get that done at
your local hospital and if not you're
going to have to do a lot more reading
on your own to try to to try to do the
best you can
as you can see here with the latest
YouTube stats 87.1 percent of the people
that are watching these videos aren't
subscribed to the channel if you're one
of these people you've been enjoying the
videos take a second and subscribe below
this is going to help the community
continue to grow and help the show
continue to bring on the biggest guests
thank you ahead of time continue to
enjoy this episode with Dr Seyfried
I want to pull you back to the
management piece again and within say
three to five sentences
zoomed out
what is currently the best treatment
given your research look like right now
well as I think
um if someone were How would how does
one get diagnosed with cancer in the
first place you know usually they find
the lump they find some discharge
bleeding they find they feel fatigued
they they have different kinds of of
symptoms that are associated with with
the diagnosis uh and they do some
screening tests and they do this and
that they can do some blood stuff and
then they make a decision that you might
have based on Imaging analysis of
ultimately a biopsy which I'm not a big
fan of
um because because if if it really meant
something big I would I would support it
but you know they pretty much give you
the same treatment if it's malignant as
I always say if it's malignant you
should never Stick It And if it's benign
why would you stick it in the first
place to get some information which now
could change it to make it different
than it was when you first looked at it
I'm a fan of of in non-invasive
procedures like MRIs CAT scans these
kinds of pet scans these kinds of things
okay so you're diagnosed okay what's the
first step let's look let's look at the
individual's blood work oftentimes not
always oftentimes the patient who has
cancer is at a out of balance in some of
the blood markers so you really have to
do a very comprehensive analysis of the
metals the vitamins the various lipid
profiles the vitamin profiles you really
have to look for any any
pathogens that might be there like a
virus you have to look for uh parasites
you can't believe how many people have
different kinds of parasites
toxoplasmosa the Nile
what is it that
tick-borne thing uh lime lime a lot of
people have Lyme disease which throws
metabolic homeostasis out it can if it's
if it's effective enough so you really
have to clean up the blood work you have
to bring the patient back into some
semblance of homeostatic Health
um so you would start probably with zero
carbohydrate diet whether that's
carnivore or plant and get your gki down
as best you can after a couple of weeks
you don't have to rush around you can
try to try to learn how to do all this
again you have the meter you know you
have quantitative estimate and then you
would tell your caregiver at the time
okay I'm now in a therapeutic Zone and
then then me if I were the one to have
cancer I would certainly get the
fenbendazole and bendazole combo which
is they're in clinical trials these
kinds of drugs they're parasite
medications why they work uh we're
working on that right now they share a
certain number of metabolic pathways
with cancer cells so they're kind of an
interesting thing very non-toxic very
cheap on uh kinds of things and then we
would go and try to get ourselves some
glutamine targeting drugs
um and as I said they're not readily
available they're being under under
construction right now for some
companies
um but none of those drugs by themselves
taken by themselves will have the power
of being used together with with the
diet
uh it's the diet with the drug that acts
synergistically because the diet is
restricting the glucose and elevating
ketones that the tumor cells can't use
well the drugs are targeting the
glutamine because there's you can lower
glutamine but it's hard it takes at
least 14 days of water only fasting to
lower your blood glutamine you're going
to lower your glucose for sure but
you're not going to get there's no diet
that will restrict glutamine so that
means you will need a drug in all
likelihood and there are drugs that are
very non-toxic that can do that but they
don't work by themselves because the
tumor cells will be able to survive on
on the glucose so you really have to put
them to two together and then
once you're in the zone once you're on
the drug the target glutamine you can do
hyperbaric oxygen that will certainly IV
vitamin C there are a number of other
things that work synergistically with
this with this whole process and then
thereby you go
through this process and as I showed you
from the Press pulse you start off
unhealthy and you gradually move your
body into a into a better metabolic
homeostasis gradually degrading the
tumor as you go and eventually just like
that dog uh that got rid of the mast
cell tumor very very quickly the body
will turn on the tumor and dissolve it
and eat it together with the diet drug
combination so
um
and it's all you taking charge of your
own biology and and knowing how to do
that but we we're in the process now of
writing up a a treatment protocol
that if we can get it published will
serve as the blueprint the framework by
which all cancers can be can be managed
with a very comprehensive do this first
do that second do this third get this
measurement look at that don't do that
until you get here blah blah blah go
right through the process and the
patient and the caregiver can both look
at the same data and the patient and the
caregiver work together as a team
to gradually eliminate the tumor and
you're right Jesse in today's lifestyle
of running around taking kids to daycare
running back and forth from the office
in the traffic and all this kind of
stuff that also impedes to some degree
getting yourself into these new states
of metabolic homeostasis so we have to
try to do this
in a logical way because ultimately you
want to survive I can't tell you how
many people have emailed me and say you
know I want to I want to walk my
daughter down the aisle I I want to see
my kids graduate from high school I I
want to see these things and in today's
hectic lifestyle doing uh things that
may not be the right way to manage the
disease many of them will not get to see
those things but it's my my view that we
can get them all or most of those folks
to see what they want to see if done the
right way
how do we get it into the mainstream
um well your podcast will help people
you know what all this is doing is is
bringing awareness to a situation okay
you're you're talking about another way
another strategy radically different
from what's currently being done that
doesn't work for the majority or for a
large number of people and this is a
that what I'm outlining is a is a
strategy that will significantly improve
overall outcome
but the obstacles and the firewalls that
are in between what I'm saying and
eventually having people treated the
right way as as we've clearly shown
there are many
and how long it takes to break down
those walls and those barriers will
determine how fast we're going to get
this whole process as a new paradigm and
everything
has to be based on the underlying theory
of what the disease is I think this is
another critical issue if you look at
the National Cancer Institute and I
encourage everyone who's listening just
go to the National Cancer Institute
website easy just Google National Cancer
Institute cancer hit it up and what you
see cancer is a genetic disease
first thing you see okay so that means
the National Cancer Institute has no
clue that cancer is a mitochondrial
metabolic disease how are you going to
change the Paradigm if the very
government structure and it's not
they're not doing this intentionally
um they just never read the science
they're they're looking in the wrong
corner of the problem
so it's not and
and I I even pointed out in the paper
um how major theories have changed the
way we view life because uh you know
everybody says oh yeah the sun is the
center of the of the solar system
everybody knows that you know the Earth
revolves around the Sun but do you know
for for many many hundreds of years it
was considered that the Earth was the
center of the solar system and the sun
revolved around the uh the Earth and all
the planets revolved around the earth
and if you challenge the Catholic church
at that time the dominant institution uh
you were ridiculed and in the case of
Bruno guiano uh giudano he was burned at
the stake for challenging the concept
that the uh now everybody but it took
Johannes it took Copernicus Galileo and
Kepler these three great scientists to
finally and what do they do they house
arrested Galileo right he was house
arrested the only reason they didn't
burn burn him at the stake is because he
had some political connections poor
Bruno had no political connections so
not so they burned Bruno and uh they
burned them upside down naked and trying
to get him to recant on his you should
see the history of this so um uh
you know all of these kinds of of things
that have gone in the past have been
severely ridiculed by The Establishment
um before it became widely known uh
Louis Pasteur that germs uh cause cause
disease
um you should look he was massively
ridiculed uh for his Concepts uh
semelweiss uh who who went crazy uh who
showed that germs The Germ Theory didn't
come out before Seminole Weiss they
didn't know what was going on but they
ridiculed that poor guy now they have a
university named after him
um you know the Darwin Wallace theory of
evolution for crying out loud I mean
that that the only reason I have made
the advances in this understanding of
cancer is because I have a clear
understanding of evolutionary biology
and without an understanding of
evolution biology none of this stuff
makes any sense okay you have to have
those kinds of knowledge otherwise
nothing makes any sense
so and people always get upset oh well
Evolution Challenge and that doesn't
challenge anybody's religion evolution
is only a way to characterize biological
processes it's not a sign it's not a
religion it's a scientific process so
you have to do all that to make changes
and um these kinds of changes Don't Come
Easy especially with the situation we're
in today but at least we have a path
it's clear the path should be if you
want the things to change then it
becomes organizing people having people
get rallied up I can tell you right now
if there were a March on Washington from
people of all the different types of
cancers all got together the tribes and
told the federal government we want
metabolic therapy believe me you would
get metabolic therapy he talked about
all the different figures there in
history and the pushback they got and
and the intensity of that in some cases
giving your messages so 180 of the
current Paradigm when it comes to cancer
what kind of pushback do you get or
given your credentials and how long
you've been in this world are you pretty
immune to that
um no I don't think anybody can be
immune to it the the the the frustration
is when you see papers that are
published
um that say that cancer uses oxidative
phosphorylation based on oxygen
consumption studies a lot of times that
they they don't cite what you've already
done uh and you know that gets you
everybody you do a lot of work and then
some guy comes out and says oh I did it
no I I we we published that before you
did
but but
um no I know it's a hard thing but you
know
um
it's exciting uh you know it's like it's
like a big basketball football game the
excitement is in the game yes if the
outcome comes out the way you'd like it
to be then you can Revel in the success
but it's actually playing the game it's
actually the process of moving a field
in a different direction yes it's not
easy is it frustrating absolutely but
um I'm waiting for someone to present
hard evidence to me showing that some
kind of a cancer cell can Thrive and
live well in gluco without glucose and
glutamine okay then I would be uh shaken
uh or I would have to spend a lot of
time trying to figure out uh what went
on with this why why did we not
understand this and so far we have not
found that after after excruciating
studies in depth we we can't find that
so that says that perhaps we might be
correct and if we are correct then the
Paradigm must change at some point it
has to change otherwise people are going
to continue to suffer and die in very
excruciating ways almost medieval like
uh which is tragic I find that to be
absolutely tragic and um and if you know
you can possibly make that less
stressful less painful more
therapeutically effective then yeah then
I'm going to do whatever I can to see
through
I mean what am I going to do go back and
plant tomatoes in my garden you know I
mean uh maybe maybe so but but I prefer
to to challenge this whole system prove
me wrong come on tell me why you think
I'm wrong go ahead show me show me the
data
well speaking of safety that gets me
thinking about diet where
we've talked about to this point where
we're cutting things out we're getting
into ketosis and then we're adding this
drug in which again triggers in my mind
how do we make this even less invasive
and potentially safer and that's instead
of using the dawn to have a food or a
substance extracted from food that could
do the same thing so anything in that
realm that you've discovered or anything
promising where you could see
a food or an extract from food taking
the place of the drug yeah well for
glutamine not yet
um for glutamine not yet now we have a
paper
under review
uh with a dog
that has a malignant
mast cell tumor on his face and I've in
some of my lectures I've shown pictures
of that dog
um that was kind of a surprising case uh
because
um the the owner the what they call pet
parent uh brought the dog into the um uh
the vet clinic and they just they
discovered under its lip it had a it had
a mast cell tumor they did a biopsy on
it and um it was a mast cell tumor so if
you look in the in the literature uh on
mast cell tumors and dogs that when they
do genomic screens they find a lot of
all kinds of mutations in the cells in
mast cell tumor so it's like just about
all the other kinds of tumors you see
all kinds of all kinds of mutations so
um they wanted to give the the
recommendation was chemo and radiation
like you know these are the standard
things that they would do uh the pet
parents said no they didn't want to do
any of that because the outcome uh would
not always be guaranteed and their pet
would be uh injured it would be very
sick they they said this dog would be
very sick and may not your outcome may
not be a cure so she said well I don't
want to do that I'm just going to figure
out on my own so she went back the owner
in fact all this is written in the paper
that hopefully will it's under review
right now but some of the reviews are
pretty good so I anticipate that it'll
be out at some point
um
she switched the dog to a raw vegetable
diet okay so uh for a year a little over
a year and the tumor grew much bigger
okay on this raw vegetable diet so
clearly the raw vegetable diet was not
working
um and the tumor became very noticeable
and large and started to invade local
local area meaning that it is malignant
in fact it was malignant by invading
local tissue when it was very when it
was first diagnosed as a smaller growth
and then the raw vegetable diet made it
much bigger
um then she read our work and recognized
that the dog is a descendant of the wolf
all dogs are derived from the wolf uh
what does the wolf eat the wolf eats raw
meat uh the wolf can eat anything but
vegetables so uh they took all the
vegetables away from the dog and gave
the dog raw chicken uh uh fish oil a raw
egg and some coconut oil small amounts
teaspoon tablespoon levels and the boy
the dog uh was calorie restricted and
lost them only about eight or ten
percent of its body weight and within uh
three months this big ass tumor was like
gone
um which was remarkable and we used no
drugs there was no there was no uh extra
drugs used it was purely diet alone that
did this and people are asking well if
you're talking about the glutamine how
is it possible that this big tumor could
be resolved in a relatively short period
of time without additional drugs
um and the answer is you know we don't
really know all we know is that the
tumor was growing rapidly and big and
the rapid change in diet caused it to
resolve completely and the dog which was
a pit bull uh died at 15 years of age
from heart failure and and the tumor
never never returned the tumor was
eliminated in 2015 and the dog lived to
2019. so clearly it was cured of its
cancer
um the question is how do you explain uh
radical remission of this tumor without
using the drugs that we think would be
more successful and the answer is we're
not really 100 sure but it comes back to
the fact that those mast cells tumors
cells are loaded with mutations which as
I said block metabolic adaptation so the
tumor cells with their mutations can't
could not uh redirect their metabolism
when the sugar when the when the body
was asked to be under a more restrictive
metabolic State those cells were unable
obviously were unable to adjust and
that's where these collection of
mutations in the tumor cells could be
our Ally when we start to put the whole
body under a restrictive State dogs have
an incredibly capable adaptation to
physiological stress and if you have a
cell loaded with mutations that cell
will not have those capacities and will
be eliminated for fuel for the rest of
the body so this is what we call
autolytic cannibalism can it happen in
people probably for some kinds of tumors
will it happen for a glioblastoma I
don't think
but maybe it could we don't know but if
it were me and I were the one to have uh
colon cancer bladder cancer or whatever
I would certainly use some of the very
non-toxic drugs that I know would push
the diet to make it a little bit more
powerful I'm not going to risk my life
knowing that I have drugs available that
I can use that are not so toxic and that
could push these cancer cells out of
existence a little faster is it possible
that I could go on a 30-day water only
fast which people do and eliminate the
cancer yes it's possible I have evidence
from Clinical clinicians who have
emailed me and told me that their
cancers were completely dissolved after
25 days of water several water only
fasts like this well this is really
tough I think most americ most people
would probably figure out can I get that
done a little bit easier do you have a
drug that might be able to push it a
little bit faster and the answer is yes
if people want to try a 21 day water
only fast three times a year to get rid
of their cancer I'm not going to stop
them I I I've seen it work but it's not
but if you told the cancer patient that
they think you were crazy
um even oncologists think you're crazy
to recommend something like that but it
works but I wouldn't say it's something
that everybody is going to jump on
especially if they have an opportunity
to lessen lessen the stress people don't
people don't they feel oh Jesus but but
you can do all these things yeah they
work I mean probably work on some people
worked on guy Tanenbaum he's on the web
he's he did all these water only fasts
he got rid of his Advanced prostate
cancer so I'm not saying that's going to
work for everybody but I would certainly
want to integrate diet with drugs where
I know I have some handle on the whole
thing and and that would to me would be
a more logical way to go about it that's
exactly where I was going I'm glad you
covered that though to compare water
fasting versus the treatment protocol
we've been talking about yeah I mean
sure they they can work I'm not going to
because I have hard evidence that it
does work but it's not something a lot
of people are going to jump on right
away so we've gone into the details of
what your treatment protocol would look
like with the diet or the fasting and
the the pulsing of the drug the dawn
I'm curious now how long obviously it's
going to depend on the type of cancer
and and how invasive it is and how long
it's been there and a lot of different
factors
but if somebody is trying a protocol
like this
how long typically do they need to do
something like this to get to a point
when they can
you know
go to a diet and lifestyle to manage the
cancer at that point versus all these
other things yeah no it's hard it's a
good question I I don't know
um
well I mean what are your choices
I mean what are your choices uh
well pump someone could say listen I
don't want to do that I don't want to do
that for the rest of my life and the
answer is you might not have to do that
but we can't be 100 sure uh about that
let me give you let me give you an
example from a couple of one case
published Pablo Kelly and the other case
uh from an individual that that I know
um uh from Norway and he's he did a big
film on this and it's all in no region
um Terry Jay from Norway and he we have
two examples of what the question
exactly to address address your question
Pablo
um took no radiation no chemo no
steroids uh
his tumor continued to grow for three
years slowly slowly though he was in a
carnivore kind of Keto uh mostly meats
and stuff and eventually it grew to the
point where he had to have it debunked
cut out because we all looked and said
it's not it's not be this diet alone
without drug is not causing your tumor
to regress completely so he had it to
both first they said it was a
non-operable tumor it was inoperable so
you wouldn't be able to get it all out
then after three years of ketogenic
metabolic therapy they looked at a CAT
scan MRI and said oh this thing might be
uh the bolt more completely than it was
three years earlier so he said okay so
he gets the tumor out and they said the
neurosurgeon the surgeon said we think
we got most of it oh okay so Pablo
thinks he's out of the woods
um goes back not to uh the same kind of
he was keeping his glucose Ketone index
pretty good around 2.0 or below after
the debulking surgery they said oh he
looks like we got a lot of the tumor out
so he started to transition back to a
more carbohydrate kind of diet and then
the next MRI about
um I don't know six or eight months
later showed growth
um of the tumor so put the fear of God
in him and he went right back onto a
more restricted diet and you could see
the damn tumor the image is going down
now after another three years the tumor
was continued to grow and grow very
slowly and to both so we said two
debulking surgeries
um he's out over eight years of survival
he's gotten married has two children he
would have not had any of that had he
had he done the standard of care up
front so the question is will he have to
use the rest of his life and he so far
he hasn't taken Don or ambendazole or
some of the other drugs that we know can
work on this he's very comfortable the
way he's doing
the other the other fellow from had
melanoma from Norway and he could
actually see the lesions on his leg get
bigger the more the more carbs he took
in and when he stopped the carbs that he
could actually see the lesions going
down I mean it was like he had the
pictures of going up and going down it's
unbelievable so he said listen if I want
that tumor out of my body I got to stop
taking these carbohydrates so he
switched over his diet two meats and all
kinds of things but very very low in
carbohydrates and he's he he's fine I
mean he's been out years now and um he
he knows that this may come back but he
just prefers to change his diet and
lifestyle so it doesn't come back and
that's the individual choice that people
are going to have to make does that mean
you have to drop out of society just so
you don't have your tumor grow no it
doesn't I mean he's perfectly
interactive with all kinds of people and
conventions and and lectures and all
kinds of stuff so but I think you really
probably have to really restrict uh the
kinds of foods that make your blood
sugar go up
um I think that's the safest way but
you're rolling the dice and and I have
no idea whether someone who has managed
their cancer for several years without a
recurrence they really feel good about
their life their health and then all of
a sudden they they want to go back and
enter into a diet that has a lot of
carbs in it most of the time and I don't
know uh what we can say about we haven't
had enough uh examples and Publications
to show let's take two groups of people
one's metabolically managed doing really
really well another group that was met
about like managed really really well
let's keep these guys on their same diet
lifestyle and let's let these guys
return to the way they were before they
had cancer and then compare and contrast
the two groups who's going to do a try
like that
you know think about it
you talked about the drug when you were
talking about Pablo's case I wasn't sure
if he had any of the drug did he have
any done early on in his treatment no
okay in in the second case any Dawn in
there at all or no no so
um we only know Don works really well
because we have pre-clinical studies to
show that it does and it works a hell of
a lot better on the metastatic kind of
cell than it does on the stem cells not
to say that it doesn't work on cancer
stem cells but you know we're building
these cocktails all the time diet drug
cocktails and as I said the two fuels
are glucose and glutamine so the diet
drug cocktail is designed to keep the
rest of the cells healthy while you
strategize on how to shut down glucose
and glutamine so some tubers are more
glucose dependent than glutamine
dependent and some tumors appear to be
more glutamine dependent than glucose
dependent but that doesn't mean they use
they're restricted to one fuel versus
the other it's just that their
proportionality of using the two fuels
can differ so our viewpoint point is
what's the best therapy that will
eliminate those two fuels simultaneously
uh and then and then if we find out
there's still some level of growth
because don't forget as I said there's
many steps in that glutamanolysis
pathway that could be targeted uh with
some drugs and we're still learning
about that so I mean believe me this is
not a done deal uh we we've just opened
the door into a a world of new
approaches for managing cancer and the
future we'll be able to build much
better diet drug cocktails to take care
of all of these outlier cells and all
these kinds of things we're just telling
you that the the the framework uh by
which the strategy will eventually be
built on this press pulse concept uh but
the Physicians clinics Guys these eyes
are going to be the ones perfecting all
this stuff when they see the outcome and
they're treated patients so it's like
anything you're going to learn those is
timing and scheduling for various types
of people their body weights sex their
age all these kinds of things must be
brought into consideration how many
other
diseases do they have besides cancer and
this is another thing we've seen
patients come into the clinic they have
parasite infections their blood work
looks like hell I mean they're all off
the metabolic in many different type 2
diabetes high blood pressure
hypertension they have all kinds of
things all that stuff has to be brought
back into a semi-normal state and then
you strategically use low doses of drugs
to Target and kill the tumor cells while
not putting the patient at a metabolic
balance so again you really have to be
the Artesian of the understanding of the
human body and how it works uh and how
best you can fit that patient with the
with the with the therapy so when it
comes to published research and it comes
to drugs like Dawn and Other Drugs in
that family
is that only been looking at animal
models to this point
well
um they no there are clinical trials on
some of these drugs that are going on
right now uh the problem with these
trials is no one is combining the drug
with the metabolic therapy so they want
to see if a glutamine part yes glutamine
targeting drug has been used in the past
was it a blockbuster no it was not a
blockbuster does it become more powerful
when you put it with the ketogenic
absolutely so but they don't want to do
that
because they want to get the uh that you
they're looking for uh don't forget the
Food and Drug Administration says if you
can your patients can live an extra two
months will will give your approval uh
on that drug I mean we don't want extra
two months we want years of so but they
will not do the trial with the ketogenic
diet because I was told by several drunk
guys we won't know if it's a ketogenic
diet or the drug that's making the
difference we got to know I said what
about the patient ah it's got to be we
got it's not the patient it's the
revenue generation from the drug they
make so again what's your what's your
strategy here is it keep it how long can
you keep your patient alive or is it is
it how are you going to be able to make
this drug a blockbuster none of these
drugs are ever going to be Blockbusters
I can tell you that right now the only
way you're going to get real powerful
therapeutic benefit is you got to know
how to use that drug with the
appropriate diet to get the full power
of what you're doing and so far nobody
wants to do that
given the nature of this conversation
it's going to bring a lot of people to
it who have cancer and probably a lot of
people who
are at a point in their Journey where
they don't feel like they have a lot of
different options and they might be far
along their cancer
you know Journey
stage four being you know one extreme
or people that have other people in
their lives that are dealing with cancer
and and are looking for Alternatives so
where I'm going with all this it sounds
like this is all very new and there's
not a lot of areas to turn for treatment
of the type we're talking about today
there's a lot of roadblocks in people's
way so
if it was you or somebody that you know
in your family that came to you and said
Dr C freed
I want to try this where do they go
these days while this is so new and
there's not a lot of people doing it I
know well there's some small clinics
that are starting to dabble in this
stuff but like you said at the beginning
you know you could be shut down because
you're not following uh standard of care
for for political reasons has nothing to
do with the the clinical uh they're
shutting it down because they don't
understand it they don't know about it
but because you're not following
protocol I mean these poor as you said
some of these poor guys could lose their
license for doing it you will not see
um metabolic therapy uh discussed in any
degree at the top medical schools
um you got to do do it with the they
never heard of Otto many of them never
heard about a Warburg many of them never
heard of what I'm talking about so you
have that wall
um uh of of interference and yeah it's a
problem okay so how do we
how do we break how do we get the word
you gotta train Physicians to know how
to use the strategy the technology you
gotta they have to be educated
they can be this is not
um insurmountably some of the the actual
into the the nitty-gritty bio chemical
pathways
supporting what I am saying
does take a lot of in-depth knowledge
and research there's no question about
it I'm just able to take it out of the
the molecular mud and bring it into a
comprehensible uh strategy but I'm in
the mud all the time uh uh trying to
clean up what we know and how to improve
what we know but we're already far
enough along in case reports and in
pre-clinical outcome to know this is the
path forward we already know that so if
we know that
why are we not going in that direction
because there is all these other issues
one of the biggest ones is revenue
generation
how do we how do we keep everybody's
books balanced
uh it's okay if I can bring in a new
strategy to replace standard of care but
standard of care generates a lot of
Revenue so how can we use metabolic
therapy who has the business model what
entrepreneur is going to step forward
with a business model because
everybody's going to be happy if I can
earn as much money doing metabolic
therapy as I would doing radiation and
chemo
um but right now that hasn't happened we
we're still looking for the
entrepreneurs to figure out how to do
this because I think the people want it
the cancer patients want it the problem
is we have this Revenue issue that we
have to get through and I'm not that
kind of a guy I don't deal with trying
to figure out that kind of to solve that
problem my problem my my goal is to show
that this be this will be the future of
cancer it's just that we have to put the
other parts of the puzzle together to
make it that way we have to have set we
can set up clinics we get all the top
medical schools could be doing this
right now with a little bit of six-month
training program uh knowing knowing how
classes and re-education and research
but who's going to make the money on
this right where the money where is the
money going to come from I can manage
your cancer without toxicity on the
cheap great okay how is that going to
help our industry
I don't know somebody's going to have to
figure that out but it's going to happen
you can you can delay it only for so
long because then more and more people
that are using this and the more and
more people are surviving a hell of a
lot longer they would have been if they
had gone to standard of care is
eventually going to be a grass fire and
people who say I want this you're going
to have to adapt in some way because we
want it and we want it why what do you
think because we understand the biology
we're actually targeting the very
essence of what those cells need to
survive without the toxicity and and we
can do it absolutely we already have the
drugs we already have the know-how we
just we just don't have the motivation
to do it and and that's something that I
can't I can't address
for somebody who is desperate enough and
and determined enough
and is tuning in right now are there
clinics out of country is there stuff
overseas people can look to down in
Mexico
I if you can't answer that fair enough
but I just have to push you on it to
give people something that have tuned
into this point and feel like
I'm desperate and the other Factor here
is time especially for people that you
know might be more towards the end
stages of cancer they don't have a lot
of time so I just feel for people and I
want them to have something practical
they can grab onto at the end of this
you you feel for people
think about how I feel for these folks I
mean they're coming to me I get some
letters of people that are in the end
stage of their disease and I can't
believe that they could still be alive
after what they have gone through in up
to the point when they're they're
they're desperate they're at their end
of their their their their string here
they're going to hospice for crying out
loud and now they're coming to say Can
metabolic therapy be helpful to me and
the answer is I don't know
um I'm not saying I can't tell people oh
yeah we have the Panacea for your
problem no I don't I mean the the issue
here is that we have a planned strategy
to manage cancer and it's done
differently than what this than what
they do in the in the major medical
centers so it's based on a completely
different underlying theory of what the
disease is and again they always say if
you catch the disease early you can you
can potentially cure it
um uh yeah uh that's true for metabolic
therapy as well as it would be for
standard of care therapy but um as you
mentioned Jesse you now have to take you
now have to use metabolic therapy to not
only try to kill the remaining tumor
cells or what's ever growing but now try
to re correct all of the massive damage
that was done to your body by toxic
poisons and radiation or immunotherapies
or or all this stuff so you're asking a
new approach to not only solve the
original problem but to create fix the
mess that you already went through in
trying to you uh use those failed
procedures to manage your disease so
this is a real
um tough thing to expect on an emerging
therapy uh to try to now that doesn't
mean those four those folks can't
benefit from this I have seen
the paper we published on the woman with
breast cancer out of the clinic in in
Istanbul she was from she was from Ohio
Advanced uh triple negative breast
cancer to the brain uh which is really
bad liver and brain when you get your
cancer spreading to your other organs
especially the brain it's usually lights
out and they said there's no more we can
do well that that woman went to the
clinic and uh she was in the emergency
room for quite a while she was near
death but they fixed her up got her back
and she had to go through this metabolic
therapy for for a couple three months
and eventually she uh returned back to
the United States
um and it's really good I mean
I know these anecdotal things sound
crazy but but we have her doing doing
really really well we have evidence what
her tumor was how much it metastasized
how bad it was and now she's alive and
she's and she's looking pretty good and
that's why I think you have to look at
the the survivors and the
um
the movie cancer Revolution where Maggie
and Brad Jones have interviewed these
cancer terminal so-called terminal
cancer patients who have rallied I I
think I think the issue is is that how
how healthy is the per if some of these
people say you know I've been through
everything and they tell me I only have
six months left how do you feel now well
I actually feel pretty good well if
that's the case you may be able to
adjust to metabolic therapy but I you
know when you somebody's calling you
from hospice and they're saying can you
help me you know it's really hard I hate
to say it but it's it's hard so and it's
hard for anything they wouldn't be in
hospice if something something worked in
the first place so
um yeah so it's a judgment call and you
have to have a team of Physicians that
have to make those judgments work with
the patient with the family but at least
provide them with options and
opportunities that they presently might
not have it's always a hard thing to say
well we've done everything there's no
more we can do I mean that's the that's
a terrible thing to sell tell somebody
especially after you threw the kitchen
look at them you know spend all this
money and all this crazy stuff and that
doesn't work I mean this is tragic this
is tragic this whole cancer thing is
just a massive tragedy a human Humanity
a tragedy of humanity how do you feel
about cancer screenings there's a lot of
different methods out there mammography
needle biopsy and we could go on and on
if somebody has signs and symptoms and
they feel like they might have cancer or
their doctors screening them what I'm
getting at here is is there a Continuum
from
you know good
better best
when it comes to assessing and I've
heard of things like thermal imaging
that are less invasive or supposedly
how do you feel about all that well I
think any kind of Imaging
that does not
is non-invasive
could be potentially helpful
so
um a non-invasive Imaging like you said
thermal imaging they're they're trying
to work on on on blood biopsy liquid
liquid biopsy which I think uh the
president's moonshot project
I hate to call it that it's but he has a
a component in there for building
looking more into liquid biopsies where
you can take in the blood and look and
see if you have certain cancer markers
uh that might predict uh whether or not
uh you should have a certain type of
treatment but there's still a lot of
false positives and false negatives
associated with that I I think MRI pets
anything that you can use to get an
assessment my colleagues that are that
work in the area the Radiologists uh
these kinds of guys they're pretty sure
when they look at a a an image not 100
sure but maybe a pretty high percentage
sure to know whether that mass that
you're looking at is malignant or not
okay now the field that determines that
in order to make that decision you need
to take a biopsy of of the tissue look
at it under the microscope and then
confirm what the um a radiologist has
already uh predicted that uh that yeah
that's malignant because I can look at
the edges I can I can look at the image
the way it looks in angles and and they
can pretty much determine whether this
is bad or good
um or how bad it could be but the the
ultimate determination comes comes from
the biopsy material where a pathologist
looks at the the number and structure of
the cells my concern with that is that I
have read many many many many papers
where the very uh process of taking
sample from the tissue could provoke the
micro environment uh leading to a tumor
cell dissemination from the very
procedure to to look at the tissue to
determine whether or not it's malignant
now if it's not if it's a benign tumor
then you would never really need to S to
take a biopsy from it
if you could assess that it would be
benign you can just cut it out and
debulk it without really doing much else
but if it is malignant the last thing
you would want to do is take a biopsy of
that tissue leading to the process of
now spreading it through your body and
people say it's very rare I agree I
didn't say it's very rare it's not
common
uh biopsy of patients tumors to cause it
to be a terminal malignant cancer is in
fact not common however there's enough
papers in the literature to say that it
can happen in multiple different cancers
not only brain cancer colon cancer
breast cancer uh all these different
kinds of cancers that I've seen where
they can stay actually spread the tumor
cells around from biopsy yes it doesn't
happen it's not a common thing but what
what about the poor patients that dies
from that needlessly okay for that
person it's lights out that didn't need
to happen you know they used to have the
more solution procedure for uterine
polyps in women okay they pulled that
off the market why because it's like a
kind of a a lawnmower it grinds up the
polyps uh in the uterus and people were
getting metastatic cancer and dying from
the grinding up of the polyps because if
one of those polyps happened to be a
malignant polyp you're spreading the
malignant cells all over the place so so
they had to stop this morsellation
procedure that was exactly what I'm
talking about so you've got to be very
careful you don't want to stick the hive
when the bees are rolling and have the
bees come out you gotta you gotta get
rid of it before they they can come out
that's why I said if you see something
go on metabolic therapy see if it
disappears and if it doesn't disappear
and it becomes smaller the bulk it get
rid of it you know don't don't go and
chop around on it this kind of stuff
that's what I was getting at I'm glad
you're able to decipher there's a
Continuum from bad to good when it comes
to screening
which isn't even into the therapy all
the stuff we talked about before which
is another whole area that we've left it
decipher through and figure out their
own path
you're absolutely right so everything
has to be done strategically
causing the least amount of stress and
harm to the patient under any conditions
and again each patient is different from
another patient and the sharp people who
understand screening can make those
decisions if they're trained to know how
to make these decisions and then be very
careful about their recommendations I
think a lot of people will benefit from
this or at least you won't let some
people die needlessly from from a lack
of knowledge
Professor C freed it's great to have you
back on the show we're gonna get further
into alternative Cancer Treatments you
have a lot to share in that realm and
after our first interview went live it
exploded on YouTube and people are are
really receiving that well so I'm
excited to get into more of the nuances
what you have you know done in your
research and what you can share with us
but I think a good starting off place
before we get into
treatments and and that whole ball of
wax again is talking about what happens
to a regular cell in the body when it
becomes cancerous let's talk about the
physiology and set things up that way
well thank you very much Jesse and it's
it's nice to have a return visit if you
will
um
yeah so I mean the definition of cancer
and I may have mentioned this before
um is cell division out of control
so what happens to the uh first or group
of cells
that become dysregulated in their growth
because ultimately this is what the
problem is you have most of the cells in
our body
are in what we call a differentiated
State a quiescent state they're all
arranged in order in our various organs
and tissues and they all contribute
together uh to the Society of cells in
the body which ultimately is us whether
it's in the brain the liver
um you know you have liver dysfunction
and your your brain responds in a way
the brain would have a problem the liver
would respond in a way all of our all of
our systems are integrated uh Through
Blood networks through immune systems so
we we are actually a very highly tuned
integrated machine
what happens so
um to a cell uh in say a breast or a
bladder or a colon or uh you know lung
that would make that cell uh become
dysregulated in its growth
so
um well there's been a lot of ways that
cancer has been produced
in cells and tissues of our body and
most of it has to do with a chronic
disruption of the of the cellular micro
environment through uh irritation
through a viral infection
uh through a blocked a blood vessel that
would cause a chronic or restricted a
hypoxic environment
um the problem is is that that CR and
it's I say chronic because most acute
damages to cells and tissues will lead
to Rapid death and as Otto Warburg said
you can never get uh dysregulated cancer
cell from a dead cell so there has to be
some level there has to be some time
frame when this regulated cell this
quiescent differentiated cell uh has an
opportunity to become dysregulated and
what what what's responsible for the
quiescent regulated differentiated state
is the function of the energy metabolism
within that cell and that's controlled
by the organelle called the
mitochondrion it's kind of a spaghetti
Network that exists in the cytoplasm of
the cell that Network interacts with the
nucleus the nucleus and the mitochondria
within a cell have a very uh intimate
communication system from signaling
Pathways and such like this
um but a chronic insult to a cell or a
tissue leads to a gradual loss of energy
through oxygen
so to prove that I mean you're breathing
I'm breathing most living people most
animal everything gets energy they
breathe Ox they get oxygen in either
through the gills through the lungs or
whatever
that oxygen serves as an acceptor a
final electron acceptor for the electron
transport chain in the mitochondria that
generate large amounts of energy very
efficiently
however if that Energy Efficiency is
chronically interrupted not to the point
where you kill the cell where because if
there's no energy death you can't be
live with no energy so what happens in
the cancer process
is that the energy is transferred from
oxidative phosphorylation breathing
oxygen to an ancient pathway of what we
call fermentation
um the technical term is substrate level
phosphorylation a type of energy a type
of energy mechanism that existed for all
living organisms that were on our planet
before oxygen came into the atmosphere
some 2.5 billion years ago so these
heirlooms of energy metabolism exist in
most of the cells of our body
these old ancient heirlooms but they
play a very very minor role when we're
breathing oxygen they they have a very
low uh production of energy if these uh
oxfos energy through oxygen
phosphorylation is corrupted or
deficient or anything like that
the ancient pathways are up regulated
and the mitochondria
send a message to the nucleus of the
cell and the nucleus of the cell sends
out a messenger that up regulates
Transporters for glucose and glutamine
the two fuels that are necessary for
these ancient Pathways to maintain
viability the problem with that is that
that same organelle the mitochondria
that's responsible for differentiation
and quiescence also controls the cell
cycle and the differentiated state so
when that organelle becomes corrupted
and the cell falls back on the ancient
fermentation pathways
the controller of the cell cycle
is not there and what happens the cell
starts to divide exactly the way it did
uh 2.5 billion years ago because all of
the cells at that time uh were
dysregulated in their growth they just
grew and grew and grew and grew until
the fuels were fermentable fuels
disappeared in the environment the cells
would die
so this whole cancer thing is not a
mystery these cells are simply falling
back these cancer cells and when you
look at them in every major tissue of
every major cancer you look at the
mitochondrion in the human cells and you
find them defective you find them few in
number their morphology is abnormal and
their function is abnormal so if that's
all abnormal and structure determines
function then these cells are dividing
and dysregulated because the very
organelle that's controlling this
process is dysfunctional and these cells
then are growing based on the
availability of the sugar glucose and
the amino acid glutamine in the micro
environment of those cells and as long
as those two fuels are present in
sufficient quantities those cells will
be growing in a disregulated way and
they become worse and worse and worse
until you get the spread which which we
now know what would underlies that
that's another story that would require
some level of explaining Nation but we
know
basically uh we I understand
basically what causes cancer how it
develops how it metastasizes and
basically how what we need to do to stop
it in a non-toxic way
Dr Seyfried correct me if I'm wrong but
the way I understand it we all get
cancer at different points throughout
our life but the body typically fights
that often destroys it before it becomes
a problem is that how you understand it
is that true
uh you know maybe it is to some extent I
mean if you don't get cancer I mean if
what do you say we all have cancer
um
uh I don't know maybe maybe we do maybe
we don't I mean if we don't if we all
have cancer and never get cancer what
does that mean you know
um the issue here is is that uh you have
if the cells you can have a benign tumor
that kind of grows a little bit I mean I
could skin things here I mean is that
cancer I don't know I mean it's a maybe
a small dysregulated cell growth to some
little thing as you get older you get
more of these little things all over
your body you can just take some liquid
liquid nitrogen and burn it off or you
can go to the doctor or do something
like that I mean it's not going to kill
you for sure
um but if you get a lesion uh in in a
Cell uh that has the capacity to grow
dysregulated then you especially in one
of your internal organs or in melanoma
or brain tumor or something like this
you got a problem so the answer to your
question is do we all have cancer I mean
people say that maybe they do I'm not
really worried about things that aren't
going to kill you
um so uh but but once those cells lose
their growth regulatory properties which
is part of this mitochondria that's what
we do know and we do know that that
dysregulated growth is driven by a
fermentation metabolism and we do know
that as long as those fermentable fuels
are in the micro environment it's going
to be hard to kill that cell
well why I'm so curious or part of the
reason about what I brought up there the
fact that we all have different small
quote-unquote cancers at different
points in our life and the body destroys
them and then we're cancer-free again
it gets me thinking about the fact why
is the body or the immune system
detecting certain cancers and taking
care of them versus others I'm just
curious on why that divide yeah I think
you know
um there's some people who never get
cancer right and our bodies have a
surveillance system you're absolutely
correct
um but here's the situation uh that
those little growths and things like
that are in fact detected by our immune
system
um and their cancer has been described
by some uh well well-knowledgeable
people as a wound that does not heal
um and uh we have immune cells that go
in
now I'm coming to the metastasis part of
the part of the understanding is that
you have a small growth of cells and you
say like well your immune system should
come in and take care of them and in
many times it does and sometimes it
doesn't
and what happens is that the body's
immune system looks at this growth and
uh they try to uh manage the the cells
but the cells send off signals that look
like a wound and our body looks at that
and then throws out cytokines and growth
factors to try to heal the wound the
problem is is if you have cells that are
already slowly growing
those cytokines and growth factors could
actually make those cells grow even
faster so the very system in our body
that's designed to try to put out the
fire is like throwing gasoline on a fire
so if you have these cells this our
immune systems don't recognize oh this
is cancer oh this is a stab wound or
some kind of a contusion or whatever
they are fibroblasts and macrophages can
heal that but when it comes to an
incipient cancer the very programmed
structures the program of the programs
of those cells is in the wrong context
because what their context what they're
doing now is inappropriate and can
actually Foster that that small growth
to become worse
um and then there's this Fusion
hybridization we we have cells in our
body macrophages and when they heal
wounds and the wound doesn't heal fast
enough the macrophages fuse together and
they form these multi-nucleated giant
cells and we often see them in Cancers
and you'd say oh wow look at our immune
system is being overwhelmed by all these
dysregulated cancer cells the problem is
the mitochondria in the tumor cell is
abnormal leading to a fermentation and a
dysregulated growth so our normal cells
see that and they throw out the growth
factors in cytokines which is like
throwing gasoline on this fire making it
even worse and they think these cells
are also programmed to fuse and may to
try to do a better job it's like a four
alarm fire you get more fires
departments in there and they're fusing
together all to try to put out this fire
what happens is the cytoplasm of the
cancer cell and the immune cell in this
Fusion process dilutes the normal
mitochondria in the immune cell that
cell is the cell that can goes through
the bloodstream enters and exit tissues
and it inhibits the immune system
because it is the immune system that is
the cell that is metastatic that is the
cell that spreads all around your body
they call oh I got cancer in my liver
it's in my brain lung all over the place
those are macrophages those are our
normal former formerly normal cells that
have now become corrupted and they live
on the same fuels glucose and glutamine
and in order to put the fine in order to
kill these cancer cells whether it's a
singular location a stem cell tumor that
grows like crazy but can't spread and
then you have the normal cells come into
the stem cell tumor fusing and then you
get spread and sometimes the spread
Could Happen very early they had cancer
what we call cancer of unknown primary
cup uh a lot of so I got cancer it's all
over my body and they can't find the
primary tissue they can't find the
primary or cancer of unknown primary it
represents five to seven percent of
cancer deaths I don't know where it came
from but all the cells in that cup
they're Royal macro they're all part of
the immune system gonori
so our various cells that are designed
to protect us are the very cells that
are killing us so
um uh and you need to know the biology
of this and it took me it took me 30
years to of constant research on some of
the best animal models the best and then
you just go to the human literature and
you see whether or not what I'm saying
is corroborated by pathological reports
from the human literature and it all is
so uh we know precisely it's just that
the field for whatever reason they don't
either read the literature they don't
understand the literature or they come
in with a mindset that prevents them
from recognizing uh what I just told you
what's becoming really clear early in
the conversation here is that cancer is
us I think a lot of times when they
think people think about cancer the
layperson they want to fight cancer
destroy cancer what you're making clear
throughout the first 15-20 minutes here
is the fact that these are our own cells
yeah that are
in the first part when you're describing
they're going back to a more primitive
form and then you describe with the
metastasis the fact these macrophages
are starting to behave well they're
converting over to cancer cells so it's
our own body yeah that is is changing
right so when we talk about fighting
cancer essentially we're talking about
fighting our own body
and as long as you keep that body full
of sugar and glutamine uh or is well the
the sugar and the high fructose foods
that we eat I mean you're just letting
that thing go crazy
um so that's clear uh what's happened
now why why did our ancestors and some
of the Primitive
Aboriginal tribes have such a low level
of cancer because of their environment
if you're in an environment where a
highly processed carbohydrate foods are
in minimal Supply you have a lot of
exercise
we have a surveillance system in our
body and if we have a cell where the
mitochondria May slowly become corrupted
that cell is consumed for the good of
the whole our our macrophages come in
see that cell it's not performing it's
not living up to the society
requirements it's eaten
excuse me and um and then the molecules
from that cell that was eaten are now
distributed throughout the body for the
rest of the cell so you say well why why
did cancer become uh so prevalent over
the last 50 or 60. maybe we've had
cancer since since uh Neolithic times
but it was it was very rare it was it
seemed extremely rare uh and now it's
it's overtaking heart disease as the
number one killer in Western societies
so um what's going on
um and we're allowing uh ourselves to
become lazy and fat and we're not
surveilling the body the way we should
it's hard to ferret out we can at cells
if there's always a surfeit of carbohyde
glucose in the bloodstream because the
rest of the cells become uh they're less
proficient in weeding out the weak the
lame the unfit when everybody is fat and
happy with all the sugar in our in our
in our system so there's no need to
ferret out these dysregulated cells
until and then all of a sudden you find
yourself with it spread all over your
body or your you know you really have a
big problem so um and you know you can
go back and look at you know uh the way
the way most organ cancer is very rare
in organisms that live in their natural
environments all right wolves rarely had
cancer none of our uh very few of our
primate relatives The Chimps the
gorillas the orangutans can answer is
very rare in these in in these animal
species just like our Aboriginal past uh
cancer is extremely rare it's only
within uh you know the last say 50 or 60
years especially within the last 30 or
40 years that we see this why is this
why what is going on it's not genetic
this whole nonsense about cancer being
genetic is crazy
um it's Environmental
uh wake up people it's an environmental
uh situation as soon as the Food and
Drug Administration unleash high
fructose corn syrup and as soon as our
society became more dependent on
technology we lack our exercise we're
filling our bodies with glucose and
sugar is is not a carcinogen but it
creates systemic inflammation systemic
inflammation will damage oxidative
phosphorylation is systemic inflammation
allows you to be infected by viruses
oncogenic viruses your body simply
become weaker uh when you're in these
kinds of of States as I said before you
know we have an obesity epidemic
um this Pro this propels people for type
2 diabetes dementia cancer
cardiovascular disease it's all of these
diseases together are called chronic
diseases from our diet and lifestyle
okay diet and lifestyle are responsible
for this
problem and um you know now you try to
figure out okay what are we going to do
to to manage the system well you could
do prevention as you know most people
don't care about prevention some do most
people don't
um and then when you have cancer people
want some sort of a a rapid cure and you
get you know all these toxic things that
that you're given when you do standard
of care and uh you have a bad problem
you make it worse
um but you're right Jesse it's it's
ourselves you know
um it's our body it's the way we we live
in our society that's contributing to a
lot of this problem
there's some really interesting research
with cells and this is where they took
different organelles actually it was the
cytoplasm in the nucleus
and then they put different tumors into
the cytoplasm and the nucleus
talk about how that worked and what they
found out from that yeah well that's the
nuclear transfer experiments I
summarized all those
um as I mentioned in the last maybe I
did I don't I don't remember
um but you know that that uh those
nuclear transfer experiments were a
backbreaker to this whole view that
cancer is a genetic disease
um you know these these studies were
done uh by Dr Kim uh kennel at the um he
was down at Louisiana he since went to
the Minnesota he passed away a couple of
years ago McKenna's work on the frogs
and and then there was Jim Morgan's
group at St Jude's and there was uh
rudyanish's group down here at MIT uh
Beatrice mintz's group
um the Israel and Schaefer's group from
the University of Vermont uh Shane
wimberlin from uh uh University of Texas
I mean all of these groups had done
these kinds of experiments where they
would take the nucleus of a um a tumor
cell and put it into this cytoplasm uh
correctly took the nucleus of a um yeah
a nucleus of a tumor cell put it into a
normal cytoplasm and you would get no no
dysregulated growth on the other hand if
you took the normal nucleus and put it
into the tumor cytoplasm uh you got
dysregulated growth and I documented how
these studies were done over and over
again repeated time and time again okay
all different types of cancers all
different types of protocols and as I
said what were they doing they were
simply asking whether or not a a a a a a
tumor nucleus could direct normal
development or not and the answer was
um uh the tumor nucleus
was suppressed in its abnormal growth so
the cytoplasm was controlling uh the
just the regular the cytoplasm was
controlling the regulation of growth and
that's exactly what I said because the
in the cytoplasm are the mitochondria
and the mitochondria control the cell
cycle and if the mitochondria damaged it
doesn't make if the nucleus is is so you
have all these nuclear gene mutations
and you put it in a normal cytoplasm and
you get normal regulated growth I I have
a picture of it around here somewhere I
should have had it but the picture says
a thousand words you can follow the
picture I published it in this paper
here
um
folks can read all the details of these
of these of these experiments if you go
and read the detailed uh documentation
of these with all the references I even
have it in my book I have a whole
chapter on the nuclear mitochondrial
transfer experiments also if you have a
cell that's dysregulated in growth and
you say well well we'll go to take out
the clean out the bad mitochondria and
put new mitochondria in the cell becomes
regulated in its growth and then if I
have um a a a a slow growing or a normal
cell and I put abnormal mitochondria and
it becomes dysregulated and it's grown
so it's just that everything is
controlled by the mitochondria in the
cytoplasm not by the by the genes in the
nucleus so this is the key that tells us
that Cancer Cannot Be a nuclear driven
genetic mutation disease uh and that is
a mitochondrial metabolic disease and
that changes the whole playing field
about how cancer should be treated
managed and viewed and once that comes
around the whole system will change to a
more rational way to treat this without
toxicity so until that becomes more
widely known we're going to suffer
through through uh what we're currently
having and where this can become
confusing for people is the fact that
with the new Theory you're proposing
there still is genetic changes as cancer
develops the difference is
with the conventional wisdom and and
Theory
they're saying the cause of cancer is
genetic in your case you're just saying
that genetic changes happen as cancer
develops yeah I mean they come down so
with the cancer cells are throwing out
what we call reactive oxygen species so
if the mitochondria are abnormal oxygen
comes in and instead of serving as an
acceptor for electrons to generate ATP
they form these Ros reactive oxygen
species which are like metabolic bombs
they destroy the proteins they destroy
the DNA they cause mutations in the DNA
they cause abnormalities in the lipids
and they kind of just destroy disrupt
everything right so the Ross so the
mitochondria become damaged they produce
Ros
are carcinogenic and mutagenic what does
that mean it means that the abnormal
abnormal
metabolites these rusts coming out of
the mitochondria are causing the
mutations as Downstream effects in the
nucleus as Downstream so yes when you
look under big Gene sequence things like
they do down here at the broad Center or
wherever these big Gene sequencing they
find thousands and millions of genetic
defects in the nucleus of tumor cells
and precision medicine says we need to
focus on those unique kinds of mutations
to try to manage cancer that's crazy
they're all Downstream stuff
um and you can see why we have 1600
people a day they're not dying from
cancer because these therapies Precision
medicine all this kind of stuff you hear
about it's not working because it's
based on a flawed Theory and in this
paper here uh Dr Christos chinopoulos
world leader in mitochondrial energy
metabolism and I uh compared and
contrast the view of cancer as a genetic
disease or cancer as a mitochondrial
metabolic disease and it becomes clear
to everyone within a reasonable level of
education and functional brain cells
that that Cancer Cannot Be A genetic
disease period
okay a period it's not a genetic disease
yet people would say how is it possible
you can say that when I go down to all
the top Cancer Centers and they're all
telling me that it's because they don't
read the scientific least either they
don't read it or they don't understand
it or they don't want to know about it
so what am I supposed to do about that I
mean I'm telling you what's going on
people can listen they can make up their
own minds they can read the papers
themselves and come to their own
conclusion
the beautiful thing about your theory
and we're going to get to treatment here
the beautiful thing about that as well
is the fact that this is very non-toxic
and it applies to cancers across the
board yeah yeah and I think that's
really important Jesse because you know
and that's another thing that whole is
holding us back massively
um that you have you think brain cancer
is different from breast cancer
different from lung cancer different
from colon cancer different from bladder
cancer different from melanoma different
from leukemias different different from
all these I have a leukemia breast
cancer they're all they're all very very
similar I did I showed all that evidence
we went back and looked at every one of
the major Cancers and they all have
defects in the number structure and
function of their mitochondria that
means every one of these major cancers
that's dependent on glucose and
glutamine right I mean this is scary
it's very scary you're telling me that
all these cancers yeah unite the tribes
bring all these breast cancer bring all
the colon the brain bring them all
together in one table and sit around and
say what do we all have in common folks
you know okay you think your brain
cancer is different from my breast
cancer from my colon cancer they're all
fermenters they all have damaged
respiration and they're all fermenting
so are you telling me a similar kind of
therapy could be effective in managing
all these kinds of cancers and the
answer is absolutely how do you know
because I've done it I've tested it in
the lab we can't find any cancer that
can live without glucose and glutamine
so what is it what does that say I mean
it's not like oh they're so
sophisticated they're so tough oh
they're so Wily that's all you
know they're just not reading the
literature on what you should know to
know about the biology of the cell
um so yeah is anyone is there are there
any therapies anywhere in any major
clinic on the planet that is reducing uh
glucose and glutamine while
transitioning the body over to ketones
because ketones cannot be fermented and
the answer is no it's not being done
anywhere are there clinical trials
thinking about this yes what does that
mean well we're going to use standard of
care and then maybe throw in some sort
of a diet that's going to have a minor
effect you got to do what I say you have
to do the way we're working and we're
developing the the global therapy for
cancer because we understand the biology
of the problem we know how to tackle
this will will it be successful in every
human being that would become in that
would have cancer probably not but I can
tell you it's going to do a hell of a
lot better than everything that we have
currently as a standard of care and I
know this because I've tested I've been
spending many many years looking at
these kinds of things and we're shocked
by the fact that it cannot be adapted in
clinics and I that's why you figure it
out why you ask the people what's going
on here why why is this not being done
fun
Professor sea freed there has been so
much money invested on the war against
cancer over the years in research people
have been fundraising trying to raise
money to you know continue to do
research to try and find the Cure
we've made very little progress given
what we've been doing in the energy and
money invested why do you think this is
well thank you Jesse listen
according to the
uh National Cancer Institute American
sorry American society
uh
for cancer
we've made big progress
okay so you got it we've dropped cancer
deaths by 30 30 something 37 percent
um so they consider we're making big
progress American Cancer Society out of
Atlanta Georgia
so in the 1990s early 1990s we really
instituted big
the anti-smoking campaign
so people stop smoking because they
realize that put them at risk for cancer
and the big drop or the great advantage
that everybody is talking about how much
wonderful events we've made in cancer is
that the projection had we not stopped
smoking
we would have a lot more dead people
from cancer today than we had in 1990.
so what you do is you run out that that
trajectory to 2023 and say oh if we
continue to smoke we would have had a
lot more cancer so the fact that we
stopped smoking we actually reduced the
number of cancer deaths by 35 percent or
whatever it is
but it's a projection from from
prevention
uh no advance from any therapeutic
treatments that were given so most of
the great advance in cancer over the
last 30 40 years came from the people
not smoking now the other problem we
have in today now is that obesity is
replacing cancer as a number one risk
factor for for the for the problem so
we're back to almost where we started
from and we're not making any real
progress
the the problem is is that
um there's a misunderstanding about what
the nature of the disease is and this is
the real issue it's not so much smoke
and mirrors as what the uh the the
cancer societies like to use
um it's the failed recognition that
cancer is a metabolic disease it's not
it's not a genetic disease so when you
look at the treatments that you see for
cancer patients what are these
treatments chemo radiation and some of
these new immunotherapies and we hear
new drugs all the time being developed
for cancer and yet the more drugs that
we develop for cancer the more cancer we
get so um there's something seriously
wrong here and if you look back at the
drugs we're developing they're all based
on the somatic mutation theory of the
disease which is cancer is a disease of
somatic mutations and that
um you know we we have drugs that are
Precision medicine targeted therapies
and all this kind of stuff they make it
seem like this is going to be the
solution to the problem it's not uh
because the disease is not a genetic
disease so most of the stuff that we're
using is largely irrelevant and it's
toxic hurts the patient costs a lot of
money and it really doesn't do the job
that you'd expect it to do of course
there are a few people that respond
really really well and we use those
people to justify why we need to
continue with this kind of strategy but
in the long run uh it's not going to
help the majority of cancer patients
that do end up dying suffering from the
treatments so and that has to do largely
with the misunderstanding of what the
nature underlying mechanism is for the
disease and as I said it's a metabolic
disease that can be that's driven by two
fuels the sugar glucose and the amino
acid glutamine and these two fuels are
the ones that drive the dysregulated
cell growth which is ultimately the
definition of cancer so when people say
what is cancer it's disregulated cell
growth cell division out of control what
is it driven by it's driven by a form of
energy that doesn't require oxygen oh
yeah well what doesn't require oxygen
well fermentation mechanisms oh yeah
what's that well you use fuels that
don't require oxygen what are these
fuels these fuels are the sugar glucose
and the amino acid glutamine wow that
seems simple how come nobody's targeting
these fuels to manage cancer because
they think it's a genetic disease not a
metabolic disease not that complicated
you mentioned earlier on how all the
progress being made or at least the
majority is when it comes to prevention
because people aren't smoking as much
the doctors that are giving these
treatments and the researchers who are
coming up with these drugs do you feel
like they feel in their hearts that
they're making progress
or
are they oblivious to what you're
talking about there where it's just a
smoking Factor
yeah well I think they intrinsically
know I mean they're the guys treat the
patients
um of course they have some success
but they also see a lot of failures and
um but they're told what to do by us by
the AMA American Medical Association the
standard of care is is like written in
Granite and their job is not to question
the standard of care but to follow the
rules of the standard of care which then
if you come in with lung cancer breast
cancer colon cancer bladder cancer they
have a protocol that they use to treat
that surgical first perhaps radiation
perhaps a a treatment program for a
program for some drug
um and thereby the grace of God you
survive
but a lot of people don't survive and
that's why we have over 1 600 people a
day every single day dying from cancer
in this country and it's over 8 000 a
day in China and it's it's rampant
throughout the world and they're talking
about cancer replacing heart disease as
the number one killer of people on the
planet for a disease basis
so if if they're already recognizing
that cancer will overtake heart disease
in the next year and in fact in China it
already has overtaken heart disease that
tells us that they're making no progress
because if they were making progress
heart disease would remain as the number
one killer but cancer is now ready to
overtake heart disease so if we're
making so many so much progress about
the smoke and mirrors and all this other
stuff why why are we why we have so many
people dying from cancer sixteen hundred
people a day dying think of all the
people that are massively suffering from
the treatments they received from this
um if you had something successful you
would be able to drop the death rate
even even President Biden in this state
of the union speech he wants to drop
cancer death rates by I don't know 50
percent in 30 years we can drop that we
can drop that in five years knowing what
we know about the origin of of cancer as
a metabolic disease those numbers are
easily achievable if you switch the the
the Paradigm it's not a genetic disease
it's a metabolic disease so if we treat
the cancer as a metabolic disease yeah
we're going to get with President Biden
wants in a lot faster time well the
interesting thing is that you've been
doing this research you and your team
and other teams for years and you know
you've you've put together this case for
what we're going to talk about today
and I'm just curious what happens when
you and your team release a paper in a
major journal
and it does simplify things again what
we're going to get into today like
how can that not get the recognition
when it's so obvious that things aren't
working the current way that they are
yeah you should
you know the reasons right
um
there's several reasons
number number one the Dogma the Dogma
says cancer is a genetic disease and we
must stay the course that's one reason
the other reason is lack of knowledge
most oncologists never heard of what I'm
telling you they don't read the
scientific they don't read these papers
so if you don't read the paper how are
you ever going to be told that what's
right or what's not right when patients
who do have great success with metabolic
therapy go back to their oncologist the
oncologist says wow that's really good
continue to do what you're doing well
don't you want to know what I'm doing
why I'm not like the rest of your
opinion no I don't want to know that
just continue to do what you're doing
these are the kinds of responses and
then most importantly
it's hard to get somebody to accept
something when their salary depends on
them not accepting it
so uh and I think that might be the uh
one of the biggest uh challenges that we
have so it's not one thing it's it's a
group of things that prevent and my
papers are being read don't don't get it
wrong it's just they're not being cited
they're being essentially ignored well
where my curiosity is just to go a
little bit further into this
you know why isn't a journalist out
there realizing that
he could basically make his or her
career
from you know printing an article that
people understand in Time Magazine
and and getting this out to the masses
and and you could be the recipient of a
Nobel Prize like there's there is so
much potential here for somebody to
to decipher
and and sift this information in a major
publication like Time magazine or the
New York Times in a way people can
understand it and grab onto it and start
to get some momentum going
yeah well you know it's not that easy uh
when a journalist would hear what we're
saying they run off to uh MD Anderson
Sloan Kettering Dana Farber and they
asked the top oncologist what do you
think of this uh there's no evidence to
support that
laughs
rather than looking at the data
themselves and why don't you ask the
patients who were survive as the as the
the multitudes of people that are
surviving as the result of this and and
don't think
um this is not going unnoticed uh the
documentary movie of uh the cancer
Revolution which is under construction
for part A has already been uh developed
and they interview dozens of people that
were so-called terminal uh I'm a they're
saying I'm alive I'm doing well I'm
doing well I'm alive I'm alive all back
and forth so how long will it take and
don't forget most people prefer to watch
The Bachelor uh rather than
documentaries right I mean you have to
look at that look at the look at what
people are watching you think they want
to watch a a show on cancer versus a
really exciting uh show about the
bachelor I mean that's where the
mentality is where the mindset is people
people have enough problems in their
life they don't want to be talking about
cancer unless unless it affects them
directly and then when it affects them
directly whether they go they go to the
top medical schools and then they ask
them what about metabolic oh no no if
metabolic therapy were real I would have
heard about it okay where are the
clinical trials yeah I can't believe
anything unless I see a clinical trial
supporting you can't do a clinical trial
on the kinds of metabolic therapy we do
with double-blind crossovers it would be
immoral to do that a person to do
metabolic therapy it's diet drug Combos
and you can't do the strategy uh uh the
way it's being done currently in in the
pharmaceutical attempts to make drugs
for for for uh clinical trials so so we
have to redesign the types of clinical
trials compare it to
um what we call uh historic controls
okay so for glioblastoma the brain tumor
you know um if you if you're surviving
after five years there may be five or
seven percent of people that get
standard of care that actually survive
five years okay so we're not going to
put in a group of GBM patients that get
radiation and chemo and uh and as a
matter of fact they will not let they
will not do the critical control group
and they do this for a lot of cancers so
we're going to use standard of care
which is radiation and chemo plus
metabolic therapy okay how does that
work but where is your metabolic Therapy
Group by itself to compare standard of
Care standard of care with metabolic
therapy metabolic therapy by itself uh
can't do that sorry so the very system
will not not allow this stuff to get
through the system because God forbid it
works suppose the metabolic therapy
people live a hell of a lot longer than
standard of care or even standard of
care with metabolic there what's going
to happen
so correct me if I'm wrong what you're
saying here is the fact that we can't
get a clean trial where we get to see
metabolic therapy on its own because of
Ethics yeah and what they're doing or I
I can't I'm not sure if it's you and
your team or other researchers but what
we've been able to do is do standard a
care chemotherapy radiation surgery and
then apply metabolic therapy after the
body spin quote unquote trash by those
and what I from hearing you talk on
other conversations it sounds like the
therapy we're going to talk about today
because it is so effective is able to
help people even after their body's been
trashed that's true at least in some
instances yeah it is you're absolutely
right in some instances not all
instances okay there's some people
especially for glioblastoma I mean
radiation liquefies your brain so uh
even even you can't ask a metabolic
therapy to uh to you know stop the
radiation from liquefying it actually
can help you but it and the people that
survive and there have been a few
studies that have been uh standard of
care with metabolic therapy
um who are in fact doing better there's
no question about it but could they even
do better I think they can do massively
better if you didn't irradiate the brain
I have shown in no uncertain terms that
radiation of the brain is like the worst
thing you can do to a brain cancer
patient why because it frees up massive
amounts of the two fuels that are
absolutely necessary for the growth of
those tumor cells in survival the
glucose and the glutamine when you
irradiate the brain you free up massive
amounts of glutamine which fuel those
cancer cells make them resistant to
chemotherapy and resistant to more
radiation and it's just like nuts and no
matter how many times that I write these
papers an excruciating detail describing
in no uncertain terms how the radiation
of the brain is causing the recurrence
of the tumor and the death of their
patients you might as well be talking to
a stone because it doesn't have any
impact on the people doing these kinds
of treatments so
um you have to look at it and say wow
you're continuing to treat these people
with a therapy you know does not work
and it may in fact lead to their demise
and yet you continue to do that over and
over and over again why is that what
could explain another human being doing
that to a person
and and these are the kinds of things
that nobody wants to touch with a
10-foot pole because you have to change
the standard of care and the standard of
care is like written in Granite and and
there's a lot of Revenue to be generated
from these standards of care so until
you come in with a business model that
can replace the revenue from standard of
Care standard of care will maintain in
place regardless of the outcome and
people say how could you say that stuff
I says why don't you look at the debts
that different certificates why don't
you look at the survival curves from
every major Hospital in the world doing
this kind of a therapy it's abysmal and
yet they do it
well we went deep into treatment last
time and we've been dancing around it
this conversation as well I think before
we proceed it's important we we cover
off what that is and you've talked about
the glutamine and the glucose
so let's just and again this comes back
to the fact that all cancers are treated
the same under this Theory so it doesn't
matter what kind of cancer example we
use here let's just call it cancer
so somebody has cancer and they want to
take on this quote-unquote alternative
treatment how do they begin I I so
you're 100 right I saw a lot of the
comments saying oh he talks about this
but where do you go
yes where do you go and you know where
they go they go to Dana Farber MD
Anderson and Sloan Kettering and Moffat
Kansas sir Fred Hutch cancer center and
all these different the James you name
it they go there and they say I want
metabolic there's no no evidence to
support metabolic therapy
so where where are these poor folks
going to go
I mean they should be banging the doors
down in their hospital and say I want
metabolic therapy uh and then they get
belittled and and and uh ridiculed uh
and they and they they get a blind cold
shoulder I mean this is nuts uh why are
they doing it and they're all you know I
I agree with many of the comments
they're saying oh see free talks about
this but where do we go all right why
don't you try going down to your local
Cancer Center and see what they say and
they're going to tell you what I'm
saying makes oh I never heard of this uh
he he doesn't know he's not this he's
not that and so I don't those kinds of
comments are superficial you tell me
what part of the scientific research
that I have done that you find uh is is
is is not supported okay you show me the
evidence that what I'm saying is wrong
you show me a cancer cell that can live
comfortably without glucose and
glutamine then maybe I'll say I really
want to know about that because I've
been looking for that for 40 years and I
haven't found that I want to know about
that so
um yeah so you you know you can oh
there's no clinical you can't do what
sea free says because this is no
clinical trials oh what the hell why
don't you do a clinical trial and then
well we can't do it they can't do the
clinical trial why not well uh blah blah
cost money to do these clinical trials
who's going to pay for this clinical
trial and then they say if we do a
clinical trial we have to do for
standard of care first we need to you
know we need to poison and irradiate you
and then maybe we'll consider metabolic
therapy no no no no you consider
metabolic therapy first if it doesn't
work you can always go back and do the
crazy stuff that you do so um but you
know and I feel for the people you know
I feel I feel bad about this whole thing
myself I feel bad because because I
understand the biology of cancer we have
a pretty clear idea of how it works we
have case reports showing that these
things work okay and that why is nobody
doing it where are the clinics that
should be doing this why doesn't Dana
Farber step up why doesn't MD Anderson
step up why don't these big hospitals
that should step up okay be because
they're all chasing genes they're all
looking at gene mutations that are
largely irrelevant to the cancer right
so they go oh you've got the back of one
mutation you got the uh FDF listen
epidermal growth factor mutation you got
p53 mutation you got who cares the
bottom line is that they're using
glucose and glutamine to stay alive why
don't you go after the glucose and
glutamine the most of the mutations are
largely irrelevant so you're taking
biopsies of people getting useless
information and then we'll go about
treating them with stuff that largely
doesn't work for for many many people
and charging them a fortune for it okay
which is outrageous you know you're
charging I mean this is another outrage
this financial toxicity stuff I mean we
published the paper on it is Criminal it
is immoral to to do that to people I
mean if you're treating them with
something and they and they get sick and
they die and then you charge them all
this extra money for this this is
immoral this is a moral issue here you
know don't get me started you know I
have to deal with this stuff all the
time it's unbelievable you know and all
I do is I make sure that the research
that we publish is accurate and then
they say oh you know yeah we got some
we've worked very very hard on doing and
setting up these kinds of experiments so
that we can get accurate results and
then when we put them into the clinic
like those few uh those fume MDS and
clinics that are willing to try to do
this uh they get really good results is
everybody accured or is everybody no how
many how is everybody cured and managed
using toxic radiation and chemo I mean
give me a break uh but we generally see
a better quality of life uh or overall
survival is improved and quality of life
has improved
um is there resolution
I I don't know uh how do we know
resolution I told you Jesse right if you
die like at 95 years old and you had
colon cancer when you were 30 and you
died from a heart attack and the colon
cancer never came back
I would say that guy was probably cured
but in the meantime how many good years
can we get out of somebody who was in
fact diagnosed with a a an aggressive
kind of metastatic cancer and I think
that's the success rate if you can
double overall survival relative to the
what's being done today then I consider
that's success would you consider that
success yes all right well there there
it is right so um so you have to then
try
to figure out well you should get guests
on here on your podcast and ask them
those kinds of questions why are you
guys not using metabolic therapy right
and see what kind of answers you get
it's very interesting instead of having
me on here why don't you go out and get
some of the guys running the the big uh
Cancer Clinic go get the head of cancer
biology down here Dana farmberg MDA get
those guys in here and oh well we did
research and we didn't support what
Seaford said oh yeah well where is it
publish it show me you know for clearly
what you're doing is not working so uh
you know you have to uh you have to kind
of rake it up here a little bit and see
what's going on well I can see and hear
your passion and I feel the same and I
feel for people and here's the thing I
know
you can understand how you mentioned the
comments how somebody coming across this
information hearing us talk
they feel that little bit of Hope and
see that there is something out there
that could be a benefit and then there's
this extra layer of
the fact that they can't even try it
yeah so it's like they're it's almost
like
not worse but there's this extra layer
of insult because they know there is
something and they don't even have
access to it well you know that's the
patient yes they know there's something
else that could help them and they go to
their professionals and the
professionals say no that does not exist
or if it were important I would have
known about it or you get a whole slug
of different kinds of of responses and
then and then you heard some of the
comments the patients went in and asked
their Physicians they said oh no uh
sugar you can't take sugar away sugar is
essential I mean this is nuts I mean
these people are living in the Stone Age
for crying out loud I mean they have
very little understanding of the very
biology of the disease they're working
with whether it's the physician or the
nurse
and and I think that's not entirely
their fault and you saw so many very few
on College any few physicians at all get
uh tree uh uh training on the power of
diet and lifestyle issues to manage
chronic disease they're they're getting
um training that does not involve the
very essence of what they need to know
about how to manage cancer and don't
forget we have pop people who are told
you know you got to stop you you got to
stop eating carbohydrates in your diet
you need to lose a lot of weight
naturally to reduce your risk for
diabetes cancer in this and there's a
lot of people who don't want to hear
that either they say can you give me a
pill well the pharmaceutical would be
very happy to give you pills but the
problem is as you said at the beginning
it's us
okay it's largely us we we can we can
shoulder a lot of the bird if we put
ourselves in the position to get cancer
in the first place we can also take
ourselves out of that position and try
to help ourselves so metabolic therapy
is is is different than all other
therapies because it requires a
significant participation on the part of
the patient the patient if the patient
participates in the healing process they
will benefit okay so it's significant
what does that mean well you're going to
have to radically change your diet and
lifestyle in order for your body to get
healthy again okay and if you're not
willing to participate and do that then
you are prone to have this condition
persist and possibly kill you so I think
there has to be an education on the part
of the patient as well as on the part of
the on the part of the physician
coming back to that point you made
earlier about me bringing on these
conventional docks and
trying to discuss some of these issues
we're how we're talking about today
that at this point at least isn't
something I'm interested in arguing and
bumping heads and causing all this
negativity the the path I've chosen is
to bring on people like you and bring
light to these other messages and and
the fact is that this can come from the
patient up I know unfortunately for the
people that are that are stage four
right now they don't have a lot of time
no this isn't going to be
easy for those people or or maybe they
don't have time on their side to to act
in this way but
unfortunately with the platform I have I
think the best thing I can do is use it
to bring light to this information and
for people to learn about it and then
and then hopefully you mentioned earlier
banging on the doctor's door and saying
this is what I want because you've been
trying to do it the other way you know
bring light to this new information and
and it be and in a large sense it's
ignored and for somebody like me I also
don't have the science background like
you so I go talking with one of these
doctors it's not like I'd have to bring
you on and you'd have to get into the
science and yeah and be able to have a
knowledgeable scientific conversation
I'm the
I'm the middle man who is here to
extract from your Brilliance I
completely understand your situation I
completely understand your response to
what I said and cancer is an extremely
contentious field it's been that way
from the very beginning
um because the implications are so
profound to who we are as a a a a as a
species who we are as a person it hits
it cuts across all of these different
kinds of things but then again when when
folks hear what I say they get like
fired up and excited and give them hope
and then when they go to their uh clinic
or their oncologist they get dashed down
and then there's this level of
frustration and so what do you what do
you do I feel so bad and because they
say oh where where's the where are these
clinics you know where they are they're
in your local hospitals okay that's
where they should be
um why are they not the ones uh adapting
this metabolic therapy that I mean you
have these giant monster cancer centers
the MD Anderson's cancer centered and we
have Dana Farber Sloan Kettering I mean
these are multi-million dollar
institutions with all of this stuff
going on and when people get cancer they
go there and they say we have immuno we
have that's all based on the concept
that cancer is a genetic disease so
right off the bat you know you're
getting a treatment not based on the
concept the cancer is a mitochondrial
metabolic disease now I know a lot of
folks don't know that and um and they
get frustrated and I don't blame them
how do you think I feel you know when I
talk to those guys
um and most of the time they don't want
to talk they don't want to get involved
they don't they don't and if they do you
know there's another layer of of of
research here that you don't know about
that I have to deal with and that is
those guys those scientists who say Otto
werberg was incorrect In His assessment
of cancer uh as a metabolic disease
because cancer cells are taking in
oxygen in just as readily as normal
cells therefore they they're they're
they're not uh what Warburg said
dependent on fermentation because their
oxygen consumption is very similar to
that of a normal cell and what we have
found in our research is the oxygen
consumption in the cancer cell is not
being used efficiently for the
production of energy whereas in the
normal cell it is being used so they're
assuming that oxygen consumption by
itself means that the cell is getting
energy from oxygen in normal cells that
is true and the cancer cells that is not
true okay and there's a huge research
emphasis showing how cancer cells have
normal oxidative phosphorylation no they
don't they have oxygen consumption
that's not linked to efficient energy
production now this is a layer of depth
that only a very few people could really
dig deep into because it's the it's the
foundational basis for what Otto Warburg
in the 1920s and 30s said that the
ability of a cancer cell to get energy
is compromised uh get an energy using
oxygen is compromised and I keep showing
you know can we cancer cells can live in
hypoxia without oxygen cancer cells can
live in cyanide cancer cells can live
with respiratory poisons they do fine
normal cells are killed instantly but
the cancer cell is not because it's not
using oxygen for energy so oxygen
consumption itself is a a is kind of a
um giving you misinformation
misdirecting you but over the last 10 15
years the cancer many people do an
energy metabolism and cancer they went
out and bought the seahorse instrument
it's a it's a very sophisticated piece
of equipment that measures oxygen
consumption and extracellular
acidification using indirect formulas
and things like this and they have
become uh everybody feels that if you
don't you need to do seahorse research
and all this kind of stuff and it's
giving the field massive misinformation
so
um uh and that's another thing that
nobody wants to really hear about that I
went out and bought all this expensive
equipment and now you're telling me that
I'm getting misinformation from it and
the answer is absolutely because we did
we did all the experiments to test all
this stuff and cancer cells don't live
in oxygen they they can grow without
oxygen quite fine and uh so that tells
us they're fermenting and that comes
back to what we did we interrogated the
cancer cells different from different
types of cancers and and just said okay
what can you guys grow on and we took
everything away from the tumor cells put
them in nothing and just soft water the
salt solution called buffered salt
phosphate buffered saline solution and
you they're in there and they all die
okay great so let's let's do it again
every Cancer cell living in no and and
just uh salt water but phosphate
buffered salt dice all right great
um then we give them back to Becca's
essential modified medium which has a
few amino acids in there and put them in
there and they they uh they live a
little bit longer but then they croak
okay the cancer cells are all dead in
dmem which is kind of a cocktail of some
amino acids so they don't live in in
salt water and they don't live very long
in this dmem okay great now we know that
uh they they need something to live and
then we add back all the different
sugars and and amino acids and we had
everything back and then we try to find
out what they need to live all right so
is it always through cysteine
methionine we throw all the different
amino acids you know
um you put in glucose and you put in
glutamine and these things are
skyrocketing now they can also live on
some other sugar like sorbos but we
don't have sorbose in our diet we don't
have sorbos so nobody's going around
chugging glasses asorbose so but cancer
cells can live on that kind of a sugar
as well but we don't we don't have that
um also uh what you find out there are
some other like asparagine they can they
can hang on a little bit with
disparaging but uh they they're mostly
dependent on glucose and glutamine so we
can't find any other fuels that can
replace glucose and glutamine so people
say oh the cancer cells can live on
Ketone bodies and fatty acids oh yeah
take away glucose and glutamine put
ketones in fatty acids and they croak
just as fast as they were in the sole
solution now if you take glucose and
glutamine and add fatty acids they can
grow a little faster because fatty acids
enhance the use of glucose and glutamate
so we went through all of these
different conditions Stripped Away
everything and just ask what these damn
cells are capable of doing under under
stringent conditions what do they need
to survive and we found out what they
need to survive they can't live without
the glucose and glutamine and these two
fuels work synergistically off each
other we've got a beautiful paper here
it's unbelievable we're going to be
publishing this in a not too distant
future this is how this is how the two
fuels are driving the Beast you know we
we have them they're straight shots
through these two Pathways feed off of
each other allowing those tumor cells to
survive and um you got to shut the two
fuels down together you take can't take
away one because they kind of hang on
with the other you hit that one and they
hang on with the other you got to hit
those two fuels together and force the
body into a restricted ketogenic
situation because they can't burn
ketones you need a good mitochondria to
burn ketones cancer cells cannot burn
ketones so when you hear all this crap
about oh no okay some cancers no they
can't we tested them they can't you show
me the evidence that a tumor cell can
burn ketones in the absence of glucose
and glutamine my hat's off to you
because I haven't been able to find it
so when you start to restrict everything
down you know what these cells have to
have to survive and if you know what
they have to have to survive they need
energy and they need metabolites to grow
and those two fuels give the cancer cell
everything that it needs and it can't
use other things in the environment so
The Logical way to manage cancer is to
take away the two absolutely required
fuels and transition the body over to
fuels that the tumor cells can't use and
you will annihilate for the majority
majority of cancers are all suffering
from the same can you believe this what
I just told you can you can you
comprehend what I just said
so yes it's unbelievable and then go
down go down to your local Cancer Clinic
and explain that to them and then you're
giving them the paper you say listen
here's the evidence that I just what I
just said and they look at it oh wow you
know I was really really good I'm gonna
I'll I'll read this and I'll get back to
you and then we'll get back to you so um
not never but you know most of them they
look at it you might as well be whoa
what is this oh I don't know now look at
this guy this is a nice paper with a a
man who had a metastatic lung cancer he
had radiation and chemo uh he had chemo
uh it was in his lung and it
metastasized to his brain
and um he went through the standard of
care the cancer continued to grow and my
good friend Dr athanasis evangelio in
Greece immediately transitioned him over
to a a calorie restricted ketogenic diet
which isn't really too bad at lamb and
olive oil and things like it was
actually kind of a Mediterranean diet
and this guy's alive nine years later I
mean he should have been dead nine years
ago right so uh well this is only an end
of one oh and of one you know uh what
about what about Pablo why don't people
read about these papers why don't you
read about this guy who should have been
dead eight years ago why is he still
alive and he's not cured but his cancer
is there but it's managed you know and
that here's the papers everybody can go
on the web on Google and Google these
papers and read them for themselves
right this is not hidden behind some
wall of the medical school this is out
there it's on it's on the it's on the
internet
so you can people can read all these
papers and then they can read them
carefully and say well this is really
interesting
um but I don't know if I can use that
funny part of the problem is and this
ties back to something I was talking
about before but to further elaborate on
that is the time factor for people
because people aren't digging into this
knowledge base and and learning about it
before they have cancer it's going to be
people that have cancer they're on a
timeline and and then they still have
all the pressures of you know family
life and stress and and go go lifestyle
and and money and we could go on and on
so it's like I really feel for people
when they're just looking for
what they can do practically put down
for them because they don't they don't
have a lot of time and they're they're
exhausted yeah you talk about this the
fact that when people get the cancer
diagnosis their cortisol goes up yeah
and then they end up spiking their blood
sugar which is feeding the cancer like
it's there is a lot against people and
that's why this conversation this is why
I wanted you back on again because we
just the best thing I think me and you
can do is get this information out to
people
and try and guide them and as there's
clinics give people the knowledge of
where these clinics are because you know
well I'm a middleman to help deliver the
information you're the scientist and
this is what we can do well I think the
clinics are the ones that you have and
everybody's uh major city those are the
clinics that should be adapting this
because you know and there are but don't
get me wrong there are metabolic therapy
clinics that are starting I know there's
one in Switzerland I know there might be
one in Arizona
um but they're not there yet there's no
place that you can go when people say I
I he talks about this but where do we go
um go go to your local hospital ask them
about it then they say well I never
heard of this and so it's I feel bad for
the poor patient because the patient
hears what I'm saying there's here there
is hope here there is a way to manage
this disease without toxicity that could
be quite effective in keeping people
alive a lot longer but yet when they
want a professional guidance on this
there's no this where where do you go
okay
um yeah I've been able to do it on one
or two three four five case reports and
um you know that our our canine paper
just came out so
um
this one here that that everybody's been
talking about you know how is it
possible that you could use a resolution
of of malignant masked canine mast cell
tumor using ketogenic metabolic therapy
alone no chemicals no radiation nothing
and this dog is fine and you can look at
the pictures of the dog and you can see
how clear and that's another thing
um in these major hospitals when you
treat cancer you like to say oh I looked
at all the the the heat Maps the medical
the gene readouts I looked at the
mutations and I looked at this and I
looked at that I tried to figure out in
our case we had nothing to study it was
gone resolution means no cancer there's
nothing left to study what can you do
where's your data to show all I can show
is the face of a dog that had a big
tumor now he has no tumor from a radical
change in diet and I see the same thing
happen in people too so a lot of it
Jesse will fall on the shoulders of the
pay of the patient themselves I give
them information they can read it is it
easy no it's not easy
um but it's there they have to spend a
little time you have to have some level
of scientific literacy uh to understand
this so it's not like going down to your
local oncology center and having them do
a biopsy and telling you have this kind
of a Cancer and now we're going to
Institute a program to manage your
cancer with toxic radiation and
chemicals and immunotherapies and car TM
you know all this kind of stuff and uh
or telling you go home and start cutting
back on your uh get your get your blood
sugars down your ketones up get yourself
into a state of in fact that's what we
we had with the Press pulse therapy
because I think people need to know
about that and this is the this is the
diagram for that and as you can see on
this paper you have the the red Guy full
of cancer he's got type 2 diabetes he's
got high blood pressure he's got all
kinds of stuff and then slowly move him
to the yellow where the cancerous
becomes less deadly uh less complicating
he starts to get a little bit healthier
and then we slowly degrade as you can
see the different kinds of drugs and
diets that you use and as you said
emotional therapy to reduce anxiety all
of this is part of the package for
healing so this is a strategy for
healing and as I said before the body
will heal itself if you give the body
the opportunity to do this so it's a
planned strategy to manage cancer and it
will work and it does work the problem
is it's not yet ready for prime time in
any of the major medical schools and I
don't know how long that's going to take
but maybe your audience the people that
listen to this they're the ones that
will put the pressure they're the ones
that have to make the change I can give
you the directions the protocols and
every everything else but if the
hospitals aren't using them then what do
you do the people have to demand it the
people have to want it I want to go over
some of the specifics on that last page
you showed in a minute here but first I
want to talk about
I want to show some empathy for the
medical doctor out there who is
practicing medicine in a classic sense
because we've talked about this on our
previous chat his or her hands are
basically tied because they have to
follow standard of care and as a second
layer onto that if they listen to this
conversation today and then go into the
hospital tomorrow and start talking
about some of the stuff we're talking
about today
they're gonna get laughed out of the
room like you know what I mean is it
enough for one Doctor Who wants to take
a stand to even do anything and this is
why again the patients yeah we'll see
how it all plays out hopefully hopefully
there is an answer and it does play out
in a positive way over time and
hopefully sooner than later but it might
have to come from the patience because
these classically trained docks again
hands being tied and yes and their
colleagues just aren't gonna listen if
they bring this up you know it's funny I
I speak to so many Physicians uh
oncologists and whatever and the ones
that
know that I'm right
are usually the ones that have retired
they can't say anything when they're
actually working but as soon as they
retire they come to me and says you are
100 right man I can support everything
you're saying but they can't say it when
they're working and for the very reasons
that you just mentioned and uh and how
do you change the system
um this cancer system is broken it's a
broken system uh treating patients on a
a flawed theory of what the actual
disease is people are suffering and
dying uh we're using medieval kinds of
approaches to manage these these people
uh little kids and we're working on a on
a on a therapy now for a childhood brain
cancer that's far less toxic and more
therapeutic again we have a beautiful
pre-clinical system
um uh for this we can publish it then
you go and try to get into the clinic
for the patient the person who has a
little kid that's suffering from a brain
tumor and they won't use it so we're
going to have the same problem uh up and
down the path how do we change that
that's right we have the science we
should be in the right direction but
we're not doing it so why are we not
doing it and then you have to kind of
dig deeper and a lot of it has to do
um uh with something other than the
science you know obviously there's
something else going on here I mean if
the science tells us we should go in
this direction and we have the hard
pre-clinical evidence and case report
evidence to say that we should be going
in this direction and we're not going in
that direction
then what then why why are we not going
in that direction
so why are these poor folks that uh
listen to this get some level of Hope
and they go to their Cancer Clinic and
they don't get anything what I'm saying
and they get ridiculed and sometimes
told to leave and this is unacceptable
and I understand there are Physicians
that understand what I'm saying and they
wish they could do this but the system
does not allow them to do it
so what's the system who's in charge of
the system what who is this so-called
system okay there's nothing being
suppressed here there's no conspiracy
here this is clearly there isn't it
there's I mean I'm talking you're
listening people are listening well why
is this not being done and then you have
to say there's something else going on
here there's got to be some it's not
it's just ignored it's not being
suppressed it's just basically why is it
ignored what is wrong with the science
that we have shown uh year in and year
out with the success stories that we
have well you didn't do a big big
clinical trial how can we not how can we
do a clinical trial when the very people
that would be participatory in the trial
never heard of this know nothing about
the biology and you're treating patients
with folks that really don't understand
what the situation is who's going to pay
for the clinical trial right I mean you
got to think about the cost of the
physician's salary the beds in the
hospital
the tests that we do to Sure ensure that
something is working in the right
direction I mean all this costs costs
money so who's going to pay for this
kind of of a therapy uh are folks that
have breast cancer all going to and get
their money together and say let's do a
clinical trial and metabolic therapy for
breast cancer
what they do is they run
um Susan Coleman pink ribbon campaigns
and everybody's out there you know
jogging and they raise like millions of
dollars and then they give it to uh Dana
Farm mdn these are the same guys that
are contributing to the problem in the
first place so uh so what are you going
to do uh I don't know maybe it's that's
beyond my pay grade so um but but all I
can do is present the hard evidence to
say that we should be doing this and if
you don't do it then there must be some
other reason for why you you don't want
to do this and the clinics are in the
major hospitals so don't say I want to
go to a clinic that does metabolic
therapy it'll go down to uh the James uh
MD Anderson go down go to empty Anderson
and say listen why are you guys not
doing metabolic therapy get the answers
well we can't do medical it hasn't been
done a clinical problem they give you
all kinds of superficial things and if
they say well the science really hasn't
been established well oh yeah where you
show me the paper you know poor patience
doesn't can't deal with this kind of
stuff and shouldn't have to deal with
this kind of stuff I deal with that kind
of stuff you know but I'm I can't I'm
not a physician I can't treat anybody I
can't tell you what to do or what not to
do all I can do is publish my research
show that it works uh oh it doesn't work
on a mouse you know oh well he said well
those Mouse studies you know they're
they're not relevant these Mouse studies
oh yeah well what about the dog the dog
responded even better than the mouse so
your dogs are irrelevant now too it go
it works together on a couple of uh uh
uh case reports of guys with terminal
cancer
I mean it works on them it works on it
works on people and dogs better than it
worked on any of our Mouse models I can
tell you that and all of our con all of
our data okay we're coming from a poor
model of cancer and we're getting
results it works so much better in
humans and dogs Jesse tell me what do
you think about all this I mean let me
let me hear what you say oh I've been
saying you're asking me very good people
have a pretty good I want to hear what
you are you I know you are you're asking
questions but the question is I'm
stating my feelings too and and guiding
us here but
one thing I want to point out is you did
drop a hint there the fact that there
are a couple of clinics I think you
mentioned one in Arizona and one in
Switzerland so people can at least have
a little bit of a crumb there to do some
searching the other thing I want to
mention quickly is I've heard you talk
about I think even early in our
conversation you quickly mentioned it
these kits that you send to people if
they reach out to you and they feel
hopeless talk about who can get one of
those and what's in there I give them
because
um they email me and I I I have a kit
all it is is just
um you know basically telling people
that if you can get your blood sugar
down your ketones up uh you have a
chance to reduce the rate of growth of
these tumors and I I in fact our press
pulse concept that was I showed you
evidence for uh the glue the little
meter the keto Mojo glucose Ketone index
um and and that's another thing too A
lot of people come to me and they say
um oh I take a prick my take a little
drop of blood and I put it on the stick
and I put it in the meter and gives me
my glucose and then I take another drop
of blood and I put on the stick and it
gives me my ketones and I push a button
and it gives me the ratio of blood sugar
to blood ketones and we've published
what we think is the The Zone the
therapeutic Zone that slows the cancer
down and gives you an opportunity to
have plan out options and things and a
lot of patients or let patients a lot of
people will tell me that you know I
can't get my my CA I've done everything
and I can't get uh my my my my my
reading I can't get into the Zone you're
telling me and then you find out that
they're also being treated with steroids
and treatment radiation and other things
and all that stuff prevents the body
from getting down into these critical
zones of therapeutic healing and um so
that's one interference and they
struggle and they struggle and they do
this and they do that most of the the
people people that I see who can get
into these zones don't have any chemo
radiation like all the guys that these
folks that I'm talking about
um they they were not hampered by toxic
treatments in the body at the same time
and then people say oh you know I've
been eating these vegetables and I can't
get my well stop try something else
um there's foods that Spike blood sugar
and then there's foods that like do the
same thing I know it's very hard believe
me I I'm not going out there advocating
people just drink water for you know 14
days or 15 days because it's hard but
but people can do it um and as I said I
can't go out and tell people and I felt
I can't tell them anything but I but I
can't say oh the only way you're going
to manage your cancer is you know don't
eat for 30 days and just drink water but
there are people that do that and they
do get success but that's not what most
people want to hear
um you have to have a therapy Guided by
professionals that will allow you to
help you get get into those zones Miriam
calamian she has a service she's a a
diet diet nutrition certified person who
knows and helps many many she wrote the
many many patients get into these zones
she wrote the book keto for cancer
people must look at what they're eating
how much they eat the combinations and
then you'll slowly start to see getting
into these zones and then once you're in
the zone then there are non-toxic drugs
uh like these parasite medications that
really do a job on these cancer cells
but they don't work unless you're in
this metabolic zone so again it's a it's
a planned procedure you just can't go
out and take certain kinds of drugs and
expect again you just diet alone will be
very helpful it's the diet with the Dr
with the specific kinds of drugs that
Target glucose and glutamine
simultaneously that's the key you got to
be able to get your body into a state
that accepts the drugs in the right
combo and that's called working on that
dosage timing and scheduling and that's
The Cutting Edge right now so that's
where our money comes when we get most
of our research is supported by
philanthropy and private foundations
um because they'll they're more uh
allowing us to do pretty much what what
we need to do to move the needle forward
move the needle on this whole thing and
we have the best people that work with
me for for years on these pre-clinical
systems and interrogating these cells so
once once we know and we put it the
package together we can train people to
do this and help them
um but you know there's a lot of
variables here Jesse
um and uh you know which we're trying to
do the best we can to help to help these
people and um and know that we're right
and know that this is going to help and
it does from what I see it's going to
help a lot of people but I feel
frustrated in not being able to
tell them go to this place if you want
to go to the clinic in Istanbul uh where
they have had some success success for
everybody no who has success for
everybody no place has success for
everybody but do we have a better
outcome than some other places
absolutely
will the future allow people to build
clinics that will treat people with
metabolic therapy uh maybe uh I think it
will be very hopeful I have I've I've
worked with a lot of knowledgeable
people that would be wonderful in
treating cancer patients we have to have
we need MDS we need MDS that are
licensed to treat people but they need
to be able to have the flexibility to do
uh to do this and right now as you've
clearly mentioned they don't have the
level of flexibility to integrate these
protocols into a treatment for their
patients all right let's get really
granular here and talk about the
metabolic therapy so if somebody were to
have a brain tumor we'll use the
glioblastoma like you mentioned earlier
we know glutamine and and eliminating
that plus eliminating glucose is part of
the treatment
let's talk really again on a granular
level what that looks like how does
somebody begin to to do that through
diet and drugs well yeah the first thing
the first thing now the GBM you yeah
it's a it's a it's a call on the surgeon
they have to make a decision because
some GBM if it's not operated on
immediately it could herniate and kill
that patient very very quickly so
everything is a judgment call on the
part of the surgeon the surgeon has to
do MRI
a variety of different uh
uh
the scans to evaluate where that tumor
is the size of it if it's impacting uh
not all the time but many times you have
a watchful waiting period before you
have to have the tumor removed
surgically we're not we're not against
you gotta we uh there's thousands of
articles I wouldn't say thousands
hundreds of articles in the scientific
literature showing that the more I can
debunk
to get rid of it the longer the patient
will survive no question about that the
issue of course is that if you have a
watchful waiting period this is an angry
mess and I'm not talking I could be
talking about liver cancer I could be
talking about bladder uh colon lung they
all have a lot of inflammation in the
micro environment a lot of it's kind of
bloody bloody and angry inflamed and all
this kind of stuff uh you you want to
reduce local inflammation as best you
can so that when you do the surgical
debulking you have more sharp edges
around that tumor and that when you do
the debulking you're going to get a lot
more of the tumor than if you go into go
after this tumor like a bull in a in a
china shop because you're going to
create a mess and that mess is going to
elicit these tumor cells to invade and
disseminate through the brain so you
really want to get as many tumor cells
back into the Central Mass as possible
and you can do that by water only
fasting extremely restricted ketogenic
diets you can get the inflammation in
that to be less than it is you make the
mass less angry less inflamed surgeon
comes in debulks already that patient
will have a a an advantage to survive
better just because the surgeon was able
to take more how do I know that because
we did the experiments here in the lab
we calculated all the angiogen the bad
blood vessels the inflammation we
measured all the biomarkers and
biochemical readouts for these things
and we can see it the demarcation comes
really sharp inflammation goes down
angiogenesis goes down which is abnormal
blood vessel development so you have all
of the markers and some of the tumor
cells start to die so all of this is
really favorable therapeutic response if
you have a watchful waiting period so
then the surgeon takes it out and then
after the surgeon would take it out you
would then transition back onto
metabolic therapy and there's a number
of different drugs that we can use to
facilitate calorie restricted ketogenic
diets water only fasting these drugs are
designed to specifically Target the
glucose and glutamine Pathways in those
tumor cells while not harming any of the
normal cells of the body so you don't
have nausea vomiting diarrhea hair loss
all this crazy stuff you know you're
going specifically at the heart of what
those tumor cells need to survive and
then you hope for the best and and we're
not like our one patient Pablo Kelly who
has a website talks about his survival
over eight years now his tumor is not
cured it continues to grow but it was
made indolent so every three or four
years he has a debulking surgery and
goes back about his life so I think I
think a lot of people think we should
cure can we of course everybody would
like to cure cancer but the second best
thing is learning to live with it if you
had a terminal cancer and you're not
terminal you might be at some point but
you're out living by by long periods
what you would have been expected to
live what's wrong with that so uh in
other words can you have effective
management with maintaining a high
quality of life and maybe you eventually
will die from this tumor but you won't
die in the time frame that 98 of the
people are dying and you're going to
live a lot longer so the idea is this is
a very new strategy for managing cancer
is it perfected no do we understand the
problems yes can we Define design
strategies to deal with the problems
absolutely so it's a work in progress
but in the end you want GBM patients to
survive a minimum of five years not of
two people surviving after five years
you want them you want at least half of
the patients to be alive at five years
and that's not what we're seeing today
and I can go through the list of every
major cancer breast cancer colon cancer
bladder cancer liver cancer they're all
they all have the same problem they need
glucose and glutamine we found that we
know that we know that so it's a
singular strategy tweaked a little bit
different for each type of cancer but
it's basically the same strategy this is
not what people what the industry wants
to hear believe me so when we go to cut
off the glucose Supply which is feeding
the cancer cell and allowing them to
ferment and make more energy
you mentioned their water fasting in the
ketogenic diet
I'm curious for somebody who does decide
to take on one of those as the dietary
piece to address that part of the cancer
is there a difference in the research
showing one being better than the other
obviously the water fasting is more
extreme
is it more effective to go that extreme
no
um there's we use the glucose Ketone
index calculator which we published here
that gives the patient every patient
with cancer can then know how they stand
so it's a meter you can buy it on Amazon
keto Mojo glucose Ketone index meter a
meter that measures blood sugar you
prick your finger like a diabetic would
you measure with a strip you can measure
your blood sugar you put it you put the
strip in the meter reads the sugar okay
squeeze your finger a little bit more
put the Ketone strip put that in the
meter it tells you what your ketones are
you push the button and you get a ratio
of how much Ketone the glucose is in the
blood and normally people would look at
that on a right after their lunch or
dinner or whatever and you'd have a
value of about 50 or 60. okay to manage
cancer you need a value of 2.0 or below
okay people say oh man I don't know if I
can get they eat this and oh can I eat
that can I eat this I don't know why
don't you check your gki your glucose
Ketone index and see whether you can eat
that and they said oh no it went up to
20. I well don't eat that so it's not
that hard and then they they'll come and
say oh oh man it's really really hard to
to get my blood sugars down and my
ketones up and I said well I I said you
want to kill cancer cells
what's your plan here it's not easy well
don't you know I don't want people to
think I'll tell you it's a hell of a lot
easier sitting down in in the in the uh
oncology thing and getting infused with
poison you don't have to do anything you
just sit in a lounge chair and they just
drain it into your bloodstream doing
metabolic therapy requires a big part on
a big emphasis effort on your part the
patient has to play a major role in the
management of the disease otherwise it's
not going to work
so uh when the patient can get down into
that low or that low gki value then the
patient becomes uh uh now the next step
is use specific drugs that work better
against the glucose and glutamine
together so you got the diet on the one
side uh making you healthier putting
pressure on the tumor cells but then you
hit them with low doses of a variety of
other and some of that can be low-dose
chemo by the way and then you just mail
start hammering these tumor cells out of
existence so uh and the degrade them
slowly while you continue to be healthy
uh none of this hair loss vomiting and
all this other stuff the tumor cells
cannot survive in these harsh and
metabolic environments you're doing it
by lowering your sugar and you then you
take small doses of like repurposed
drugs and things like we already listed
some of these and more of them are
becoming recognized so um you don't you
don't need to spend a lot of money now
as I said uh you don't need to suffer
with a lot of toxicity is it easy no if
I had I know what I'd have to do but do
you think I'm going to be saying oh Mal
I can't eat donuts and rice and bread
okay well that might be the part of your
sacrifice and what a lot of people do
they dovetail it in with prayer whatever
religion they are they pray and that
helps them uh avoid bread and in other
words it gives them more motivation to
to participate in their own healing
process what we found is that the human
body has incredible capacity to heal
itself if given the opportunity so when
you give your body the opportunity to
heal it will heal it's hard to heal when
you're being irradiated and treated with
drugs that are poisonous it's hard for
the body to Rally against that so um I
think we have to change this whole
Paradigm by the way cancer is treated
and we can get much better success than
what we have currently today one point I
want to highlight there the fact that
blood glucose is still going to be
elevated to a point even if we're
fasting doing water fasting over a
longer period of time we're still going
to maintain a relative level of blood
glucose which for me triggers in my mind
it's not like you're having rice or a
donut and spiking that blood glucose but
you still have that Baseline level no
matter what you're doing
how is that not enough to facilitate
fuel for the cancer cells
yeah so it becomes it's a very it's it's
a population Dynamics issue okay when
you have a high enough level of blood
sugar from eating
um uh carbohydrates or whatever uh the
brain is is satiated uh most of the
other cells in your body Associated you
already have a massive amount of excess
glucose because you're eating foods that
produce glucose so if you stop eating
from foods that produce glucose your
body now has to replace the glucose with
something else and they mobilize fats
and the fats go to the liver and the
liver uh produces Ketone bodies but the
liver will also produce glucose through
the process of gluconeogenesis but
gluconeogenesis cannot make up the need
for how much glucose your brain needs so
there's going to be a shortage so what's
going to happen then is your brain is
going to take what little glucose is
available
to do it so and then replace the rest of
it with Ketone bodies so this deprives
the cells the other cells in your body
of of of glucose and other cells in the
body now also increase their demand for
this glucose because glucose is a good
fuel for a lot of things so you can now
the tumor cells which absolutely must
have that fuel are now competing with
all other cells that also want the same
fuel but they wouldn't have competed
with the tumor cells when the glucose
was so high so the tumor cells were free
to do what they want to do you lower the
blood sugar now these cells are in
direct competition with other cells in
the body and eventually they start to
lose the fight they they need the glue
these other guys can burn ketones and
glucose these guys can't burn the
ketones they can't burn fatty acids so
they're they're linked to two fuels one
of them is glucose and the other is this
glutamine which is an amino acid which
is the most abundant amino acid in the
body no diet can Target the availability
of the glutamine that's why you you have
to come in with a little bit of a drug
that will push that glutamine down
thereby starving these tumor cells of
the two key fuels that they need so you
need to know how to play the normal
cells off the tumor cells you need to
know how to reconstruct the energy
bioenergetic system in the body so that
the tumor cells are now in a fight for
their life for their struggle where the
rest of the body can transition off to
another fuel this is the way the
strategy that that we that we can use so
the other thing you have to realize that
no one denies is that all the tumor
cells have thousands of mutations
everybody knows that they have mutations
because their energy is inefficient they
perform these reactive oxygen species
causing mutations in the DNA so when you
have a cells all these tumor cells full
of genetic mutations and now you're
taking the whole body and putting it
into a into an energetic restricted
State normal cells evolved over millions
of years to adapt to these restricted
States they may make great efficiency at
a small availability of molecules that
can be respired in the environment the
tumor cell has all these mutations it
traps them it prevents them from making
rapid adaptations because the mutations
block all of the they have no metabolic
flexibility so that then puts them at a
massive competitive disadvantage when
they're up against the normal cells that
have this metabolic flexibility so you
put all that together lack of metabolic
flexibility restriction of the two fuels
that are absolutely essential for their
existence and you target this while
you're transitioning over and these
tumor cells are gradually eliminated and
degraded slowly and the and the in the
material used from these dead tumor
cells is now recycled into the normal
cells of the body the body will turn and
eat the tumor cells as part of the fuel
when you have under these it's
unbelievable it's when you understand
when you understand the bioenergetics of
your body and what it's capable of doing
you know how these tumor cells can be
blasted uh very effectively by just
using a few uh strategies that is based
on evolutionary biology and
understanding of the biology of the
tumor
he talked about the genetic mutations
within the tumor and for anybody that
might be confused because early on in
our conversation we said that that's the
current Paradigm that doctors go by the
genetic mutations
well we're saying we're not denying
there are genetic mutations is the fact
that we're going more upstream and
saying that those are just a factor that
happens later on not the actual cause at
the very top
yeah there are
completely correct
um they collect and the more the tumor
is aggressive the more mutations they
they collect but those mutations also
block metabolic adaptation so as soon as
you start restricting the two fuels
absolutely essential for the growth of
the tumor the viability of the tumor
those tumor cells lack the ability to
get energy from oxygen that's the key
the tumor cell can get cannot get energy
from oxygen it can only get energy from
uh what we call substrate level
phosphorylation it's a not it's a it's a
form of energy that doesn't require
oxygen okay so it's an ancient pathway
all the cells that existed on the planet
before oxygen came into the atmosphere
use this same energy mechanism energy
without oxygen this is very interesting
because because tumor cells as I said
what on a Warburg did years ago uh with
animals that had tumors uh he would give
the animal cyanide which kills the
animal immediately but the tumor cells
aren't killed the tumor cells can grow
inside cyanide they can grow without
oxygen so that clearly tells you these
wow you mean to tell me a tumor cell can
grow in cyanide I said yeah we've we've
done it so cyanide kills people
instantly but the tumor cell is not
killed by the cyanide why is that
because it's not using oxygen it's using
ancient Pathways to get energy what are
those Pathways well it's a fermentation
mechanism wow what are the glycolysis in
the cytoplasm glutamanolysis into
mitochondria so we know exactly what
Pathways these tumor cells are using and
I say well how do you know that because
we we targeted those Pathways kills the
tumors right away it's not it's not that
complicated people oh wow you so many
because the field is saying okay you've
got 10 000 mutations in there our
Precision medicine is going to Target
one of those mutations or a couple of
them it's not going to work it's got H
tumor cell is different constellation
and mutations so it's it's definitely
not going to work it doesn't work for
the majority of people as a matter of
fact some of those targeted mutations
turn on the body and blow out your liver
blow out your kidneys they can kill you
faster than the tumor can kill you if
you have the same epitope on a normal
cell uh that you thought was only on the
tumor cell so when you give them this
immunotherapy it not only will hit a few
of those tumor cells with that marker
but it also starts knocking out your
liver and kidney that have that same
mark so um what we see it's called hyper
Progressive disease it's something you
see in you know um when you see on TV at
night all the commercials for all these
cancer things uh and on the bottom would
kill you in 15 different ways
they make that real small that part real
small that should be the number one part
this drug will kill you in 15 different
ways but you might be one of the few
ones that are lucky to survive it's a
crazy world it's crazy world man but you
got to live with it you know coming back
to the dietary piece so
your research shows we either want to
adopt a ketogenic diet or go to water
fasting when it comes to fighting cancer
and we know what that's doing so far we
talked about it cuts off the fuel supply
the glucose to the cancer my question is
when we get into that state of ketosis
through either of those means
are the ketones themselves part of the
therapy are they attacking or causing an
environment that the cancer doesn't like
yeah that's a good point we tried that
um the cancer cells can grow
um in the present key so we as long as
we have glucose and glutamine there you
can put ketones in there okay you have
to get to really really high levels like
10 millimolar before the K the ketones
might act as a toxic and the body you
embody is hard to get up to 10
millimolar so most people are in two to
four and maybe if they're lucky one to
three up to five millimolar maybe a
little higher
um the per the role of the primary role
of the Ketone bodies is to enhance the
energetic efficiency of normal cells in
the body so the that's their primary
role also by elevating ketones it allows
the body to push blood sugars down as
low as you possibly can get because you
because you can even shoot up insulin
into a person who is in therapeutic
ketosis like like for example
um if you take a person and shoot them
up with a high dose of insulin they they
go unconscious now have an epileptic
seizure and possibly could die because
you've removed all of the sugar in the
blood immediately so the brain has no
energy and you go unconscious if you
take those same people and put them in
therapeutic ketosis like drenick did
this drenick and and had their ketones
elevated to about four millimolar and
then shot them up with a high dose of
insulin nothing it was no no effect at
all why because the ketones were
replacing the glucose as the fuel for
the brain so as long as you can
transition the brain can switch from
glucose to Ketone bodies the tumor cell
cannot switch from glucose to Ketone
bodies why because you need a good
mitochondria mitochondria is the
organelle that gets energy from oxygen
and that organelle is busted the
inefficient and broken oxidative
phosphorylation part of that organelle
is broken so they can't use ketones or
fatty acids because you can't you need a
good healthy mitochondria to use those
so once you know the biology of the
cancer cell and the biology of the
normal cells you just play one group of
cells off the other in the correct
metabolic environment and the tumor
cells lose every time when it comes to
that experiment you talked about where
somebody's in ketosis and they're able
to use insulin to really bring that
glucose down was that just a thought
experiment or is that actually been done
and if so is that something that can be
therapeutic
to even cut off that fuel supply even
more to the cancer cells it might be
um I have the paper adrenic look it up
you know it's I I I couldn't believe it
he took all these really obese people
massively obese and put them on a water
only fast for 21 days uh brought their
blood sugars down and their ketones up
and then shot them up with insulin
bringing the blood sugar down to 0.5
millimolar nine milligrams per decalet
that's death for anybody that doesn't is
that's not in ketosis those people are
fine they didn't even have any cognitive
changes at all so it was absolutely
proven that you can do this you can push
play the blood as long as you are in
ketosis you're protected against the the
effects of low hypoglycemia you go to
the hospitals and you say oh you got to
get your cancer patients down into about
55 to 65 milligrams oh no that's going
to kill them you don't know about the
keto you don't know how to do this I
mean you guys are medical professionals
you should know how to play these organs
and these Systems off each other to be
successful into treatment to the disease
so getting back to your question about
can insulin potentiation therapy be uh
one of the procedures that could use you
know I don't know I know are some of our
colleagues in Istanbul use it some
people have said they've gotten a really
good uh results as the result of that
but you've got to make sure your
patients are in therapeutic ketosis
nutritional ketosis before you would
want to mess around with that also
you've got to realize that this is not a
long-term uh situation they they showed
how long does it how long does the
patient survive in this very very low
glucose condition using insulin and and
you're talking about you know several
hours you're not talking about several
days you in order to kill the cancer
cells you really need to apply the
pressure constantly over a significant
period of time where they're gradually
degraded and gradually broken down and
and and gradually managed insulin will
kill a lot of cells maybe right off the
bat but it's not going to be
um it's not going to be I I don't think
it it's it might be used occasionally a
little bit of a pulse but I'm not going
to bank using it and also you got to be
careful if your patients aren't in
ketosis when you do that you could run
the risk of harm
um you know there's a lot of things one
has to be cognizant of uh before you
would want to do that but the answer to
your question is yeah you can lower
blood sugar down to almost zero uh with
an insulin potentiation therapy while
the patient is in ketosis not when the
patient is not in ketosis you would
never ever do something like that the
other potential challenge I can see with
using that insulin with a cancer patient
is the fact that we know that's a growth
hormone and I'm curious how you know
that might be able to affect the growth
of cancer
well as I said you can't grow without
energy energy is the key you have two
things you have metabolites for growth
but you also have the energy you can
have all the metabolites in the world
but you don't have the energy to use
them you're going to die so everything
comes back to energy so you have to have
two things to grow cancer cells you have
to have energy and you have to have
metabolites so you have metabolites and
the energy and you'll be able to grow
these cells so both the glucose and the
glutamine not only provide the energy
together they also provide the
metabolites the nitrogen from glutamine
is necessary for DNA and RNA synthesis
and the synthesis of all amino acids the
carbons from glucose are absolutely
essential for running the pentose
phosphate pathway and providing the raw
material for the synthesis of proteins
lipids and nucleic acids so you put all
those the carbons from those two fuels
are absolutely essential for the growth
of those tumor cells they can't use
anything else in any sufficient
capability and in order to grow an
inefficient Beast a growing tumor cell
which is highly energetic inefficient
you have to have Logistics the supply of
the fuels used for their fermentation
mechanism have to be present in the
environment in sufficient quantities to
drive the Beast because because you need
a lot of fuel that is inefficient okay
so if that's the key you have two fuels
that are necessary that are abundant in
the micro environment and the cancer
cell will be able to grow and be
resistant to almost everything you throw
at it but if you take away those two
fuels and clean up the the environment
these cells now become extremely
vulnerable uh for killing and management
without toxicity coming back to my
question earlier about the ketones and
if they have a therapeutic role in this
it gets me thinking about exogenous
ketones and I know you mentioned there
it would have to be this really high
level of ketones in the body before they
would be toxic to cancer I'm curious has
there been any research or testing done
of using this exogenous Ketone ketones
as a way of you know an adjunct to
therapy yeah I'm D'Agostino my friend
from University of South Florida is
developing these Ketone uh uh
supplements that you could possibly use
and what we're finding is that if you do
get yourself into a state of therapeutic
ketosis where
um your Ketone levels are about three to
four millimolar and your blood sugar
level is maybe 50 or 60 milligrams per
deciliter when you take the Ketone
supplements your blood sugar can be
pushed to even a lower grade degree and
uh your ketones can be even elevated to
to a higher level again putting more
pressure on the tumor cells
um but we haven't worked yet that into a
therapeutic strategy
it's it's based on dosage timing and
scheduling and in order to fully fully
take advantage of exogenous ketones we
we need to follow more uh patients uh uh
and measure their blood sugar and
ketones while we are monitoring their
tumor non-invasively uh either by pet
analysis or by MRI or CAT scan or some
of these non-invasive ways uh monitoring
if there's a linkage between visual
visible shrinkage of the tumor linked to
levels of blood sugar and ketones in the
patient so we can then get more
quantitative information with respect to
that and as far as I know hasn't been
done yet you know right now we're just
in the process of of how long can we
keep a patient alive with a high quality
of life
um based on our Concepts but it's going
to take more clinical and pre-clinical
research to get the exact answer to your
question
so we've talked about the dietary piece
quite a bit now through the glucose half
of the equation when it comes to
glutamine
let's talk about the different drug
options there and the physiology of how
that
stops that fuel from being used by the
cancer yeah well
um there's several ways glutamine is the
most abundant amino acid in the body
um higher than any other amino acid in
the bloodstream it's an absolutely they
call it a non-essential amino acid
because you can synthesize it from
glucose uh it's essential for
neurotransmission in the brain the
glutamine glutamate cycle so it's a very
crucial uh
um metabolite amino acid in in the brain
for keeping our neurons firing in a
correct way it's an absolutely essential
metabolite for cells of our immune
system like macrophages T cells and B
cells the cells of our immune system uh
require a lot of glutamine and of course
in our gut our gut the health of our
guts uh Crypt cells and all these kinds
of cells in our intestines they're also
big users of of the glutamine So when
you say okay we're got to try to talk
cancer cells also the metastatic cancer
cell the metastatic cancer cell is a big
consumer of glutamine because the
metastatic cell as we and others have
shown is actually derived from an immune
cell in our body called the macrophage
it's a fusion hybridization kind of a
thing so they spread through the body
but they also sit next to immune cells
they suppress immune cells but they're
also consuming glutamine so how do we go
after the glutamine in the cancer cell
without harming the the the normal cells
that also need the glutamine this is why
we use the press the pulse strategy okay
so we press the whole body of glucose
raising ketones lowering glucose as a
constant press on the cancer cells so
they become less aggressive more
indolent less inflamed and then we take
low doses of glutamine Inhibitors that
can inhibit any part of the
glutamanolysis pathway coming from the
bringing into glutamine metabolizing it
to glutamate metabolizing it to
alpha-ketoglutarate to succinyl COA to
succinate there's a pathway and this is
the pathway by which the cancer cells
use to get their energy
so we can hit that pathway at any one of
these steps but we have to do it in a
very strategic way as to not harm normal
cells that need that same pathway so
that's why we pulse small doses of this
as we keep we got the cancer cells in a
metabolic Chokehold but we're not yet
we're not ready to kill them yet but we
got to hit them with a little pulse and
eventually they'll expire but you got to
do it in such a way as to not harm this
is why you need a fundamental
understanding of biology
you need to understand the biology of
all the key players that are
participating participatory in the
eventual management of the disease so
you can't go in there like a bull in a
china shop and just you know pour
chemicals and poisons and radiation and
all this kind of crazy you can get
rid of some cancer like that for sure
but you really can do it in a hell of a
lot easier way more strategic and less
toxic if you understand how to play
these Pathways off of each other and the
different kinds of cells that are in the
tumor micro environment and eventually
you degrade the tumors down to a point
where they become assimilated and used
for fuel by the rest of the cells so
you're absolutely right you can't throw
a whole bunch of glutamine targeting
drugs sure you're going to kill some
cancer cells but then you're going to
paralyze your immune system because once
you kill a bunch of cancer cells who's
going to come in and pick up the dead
bodies of the cancer cells you get a
whole bunch of corpse dead corpses of
cells where that tumor used to be and if
you don't get rid of them bacteria can
get in there cause some infection you
get got another problem on your hands so
you got to be able to do this in a
logical strategic way to get rid of the
tumor cells I mean all of this becomes
extremely uh comprehensible when you
understand the biology of the key
players that are that are participatory
in the growth of this malignancy so
again
um you know it's just that we've been
doing this for a long time we studied
the biology of all the different
participants in the micro environment we
study who's who's doing what in these
cancer cells why they're spreading how
can they not how do we kill them and uh
and you know we're seeing success in
people and in dogs you know we're
starting to see success in our strategy
and it's just a matter of polishing it
up and perfecting it to get a real a a
real strategic way of dealing with this
problem
so when it comes to order of treatment
correct me if I'm wrong but it's to get
into ketogenic a ketogenic State before
you start pulsing the dawn
yes yes because because we showed in our
Publications that we could get three
times more uh glutamine targeting drug
uh through the blood-brain barrier onto
Target when the drug was admit would be
administered under therapeutic ketosis
so if you try to administer the drug in
a in a high carbohydrate diet America
what American Standard diet or whatever
you only get a little bit of drug On
Target therefore you have to use a lot
more of the drug and when you use a lot
more of the drug you risk the toxicity
issues that can come with the use of any
drug given in excessive amounts so what
you want to do is you want to make that
drug super powerful in lowest doses
possible and that is what the
therapeutic ketosis does it allows small
molecules to come right on target low
dose massively more powerful than they
would have been if they were not used
this is another thing you got to
understand the biology of the problem
to make your success much greater than
it would have been
again nobody what I'm talking to you
about almost nobody in the field knows
anything that I'm saying here and how do
I know that because they're not using
these techniques and there's in their
clinics if they if they understood what
I'm saying they would be transitioning
over to this immediately but they're not
why I never heard of this before oh I
didn't know about you go ask them oh I
didn't know no there's no evidence to
support did you read the paper no I
didn't read the paper then how do you
know there's no evidence to support that
you can go right down the list you know
and you have to give these guys a break
too these oncologists they were never
trained to look at bio cancer this way
they're memorizing all kinds of stuff
you know knowing how to use chemicals
and radiation so you don't kill your
poor patient they're not looking at the
biological strategies for knowing how to
kill cancer cells without toxicity they
were never trained in the medical
schools to know how to use diets and
drugs combos of diets and drugs to to
manage these things so so it's it's a
lack of knowledge lack of training uh no
motivation I mean you put it all
together and and you don't get what I'm
telling you you don't get that applied
in the clinic one of the big things that
jumps out to me too is you talk about
doctors is the fact that even if say
they tune into an interview like this
and become aware read your book
they have the legal ramifications if
they try something alternative like this
so
the way I understand it at least and I'm
no lawyer is that they're sort of
handcuffed in a way to follow a certain
protocol
or the college is going to crack down on
them so
that's another whole layer to this
that's another whole layer that's what
I'm talking about no flexibility in the
standard of care the standard of care
was never written in Granite it's only
supposed to be used because based on
best medical practices and outcome it
should be used until something better
comes along
something better is here but why now can
you not use it then you have to say oh
there's something other than patient
outcome that must be underlying the lack
of ability to use this new approach to
managing cancer so that becomes a
different level of Investigation you
know why why they don't want to do this
uh what are the real reasons for not
wanting to do this and I told you at the
beginning there's a number of reasons
why people can't do that
um yeah the hospital administrators
um you know you have to look at bottom
lines and budgets and all this kind of
stuff are you going to bring in a a
treatment protocol that's not going to
generate the revenue that you got from
something else then we got to reevaluate
whether we want to do that or not uh
people say wow you sure about that go
ahead
go find out why you can't use metabolic
therapy as a standalone next to oh no
can't do that why it doesn't go through
the institutional review board we have a
group of Physicians on institutional
review boards that have to make the
decision they'll allow metabolic therapy
under certain cases as long as it's done
concurrently with the standard of care
the standard of care is your problem
so you got to get rid of the standings
not working the standard of care for
brain Care at least for brain
glutoblastoma it's not working it's not
working for advanced lung cancer it's
not working for Advanced Breast Cancer
it's not working for a systemic
metastatic cancer the standards of care
are not working and that's what's
killing the majority allowing these poor
people to be dead so when are we going
to shift this standard of care away from
these toxic strategies not based on the
underlying biology of the disease that's
a question people have to ask themselves
right well this like you said ties back
to what we were talking about earlier
the fact that
therapy is like you're talking about not
only have to overcome the cancer but
also the conventional treatment that has
to be stacked on top of it so it's yeah
we're coming full circle here yes you're
coming full circle and the biggest thing
they always say is ketogenic diet safe
is ketogenic metabolic is metabolic
therapy safe they're always worrying
about the safety issue are you kidding
me you're telling me that a calorie
restricted ketogenic diet is more
harmful to the body than high dose
radiation and chemo they should be
asking whether radiation and chemo is
safe not whether whether a metabolic
diet is safe I mean it's completely
upside down right I mean it makes no
sense
um oh it's ketogenic we have thousands
of little kids using ketogenic diet
therapy for managing seizures right
thousands of kids all over the world
using it to manage epileptic seizures
and now we try it again oh no we got to
be careful it might not be safe for the
cancer patient because relative to what
radiation and chemo I mean let's see the
absurdity of some of these things is
just beyond my comprehension
well it's obvious anybody tuning in
listening or watching this the passion
you have for this subject and and your
intensity wanting to continue to do the
work you do but as somebody who is in
their late 70s how much longer do you
think you can do this work oh as long as
I can breathe
um as long as I can get my ass into the
lab and direct the experiments I'll do
it right I mean if I have to wheelchair
my ass in here I'll do it uh yeah I'm
not going anywhere so um I'll do it as
long as I can let's put it that way and
uh uh the nice thing about the
university here is that if the students
enjoy the classes that you teach and you
bring the students up to a new level and
the current papers are are allowing them
to read and hear about the most recent
research and they get excited about it
so then that's the benefit because
that's my job my job is a college
professor and I bring to the students
the latest research on these topics and
I have them read the original papers and
use their own knowledge base to compare
and contrast what the paper is saying
and what the some of the research that
doesn't agree with what that paper is
showing so that they can see that there
is a considerable amount of controversy
because a lot of kids all they do is
memorize stuff out of a textbook and
they think what's in that textbook is
what they memorize and they have to do
Tessa and I tell them a lot of that
stuff in these textbooks they're way
behind the time they're not up to date
they're still telling you stuff that
we've already disproved and yet you're
memorizing stuff from a textbook that's
no longer correct so it opens the mind
of the kids and say Hey listen
everything in the textbook may not be
correct so
um so as long as I can continue to do
that and I do it and as most of the
students really enjoy it and then I
publish we've got a tremendous research
staff the best the best I've got the
best people working with me smart
conscientious hard-working and they're
they're learning and some of them are
MDS and some of these guys want to go
out and they want to start these clinics
and they want to treat these patients
because they're going to know how to do
it and they they they're excited about
this because they know it's right and I
tell them do an experiment to see if
we're wrong and they work really hard
and they can't disprove it so they know
that damn this has got to be we gotta
work harder on this so that's where it
is and it's exciting Jesse
um you know and I'm very thankful for
the philanthropy people uh there are
some people who feel that they want to
make a stake in something big and they
don't really care whether they're going
to make money on it but they just want
to know they're part of a process that's
starting to change the system and when
we publish papers
uh we acknowledge in the acknowledgment
section of these papers all the folks
that have supported our research and
they like that so if if someone gives me
a hundred thousand dollars to do some
research and I publish a paper where
that money was helping us collect new
data I put the name of that person or
that Foundation as a supporter of our
work so they can hold it up to their
friends and colleagues and say I am
helping this process look at me I
supported some of this research and they
get excited about that because they're
not able to to my lab and do these kinds
of experiments themselves but they
understand that the outcome of these
experiments could be profound in the way
we the way we change and help people
live longer and healthier and some folks
want to be part of that and I'm happy to
have them part of that because I'll my
my list of acknowledgments for success
is growing
is growing and I'm waiting for the day
that I can have a list of supporters as
long as the abstract in the paper
I just keep our fingers crossed on that
one but it's going to happen I'm not
going anywhere so
um and we're going to do everything we
can to help these folks and and and and
just keep plugging away at it and your
podcast maybe will help her and uh
spread the word and and uh things will
things will change things will change
well I know we gotta go but we'll end on
this we're gonna end on a hypothetical
situation years from now after you
continue to do the work you're doing
with new breakthroughs and
you're retired at this point you're
playing well no hey hey hey okay
hypothetical here I was gonna say you're
planting your tomato plants you're
looking back at the work you did all
these years
what to you
when you get to that point
looking at all your work and what of
what has come of it what is success to
you
well I I would say success is the
knowledge that we were able to keep
people healthier and alive for longer
than they would have been uh every
person that's living longer
I feel good about
okay uh if I know someone had a stage
four tumor or or turmoil I hate the term
they have terminal cancer and these guys
are living like like years longer than
they were supposed to be that's success
success is seeing somebody alive that
should have been dead according to the
the system so I consider every one of
those cases is success and that's what
that's what motivates me to be honest
with you when I see a little kid that uh
had a terrible brain tumor and he's now
going to college at some point in his
future that's success you know
um uh you know a woman who who has three
kids single mom and she gets a terminal
cancer and and she's like all freaked
out and now now she's living 10 years
later
and she shouldn't have been that because
she did metabolic therapy that's success
so what uh I mean the university I I
have I do well here at the University
but I think success is seeing folks uh
enjoy their life have an opportunity to
live a little bit longer uh without
without crippling uh adverse effects uh
living quality of life overall survival
that's success right to say oh I can
cure I didn't say ever we can cure
cancer all I know is can we manage it
better than what we presently doing and
the answer is I think we can for sure
and that's success so when that becomes
standard then what what the hell more do
you want I mean
forget about the tomatoes in the garden
if I'm there then you know we have a
problem I'm not going anywhere
that's great to hear well the work
you're doing is critically important and
I'm going to continue to do what I can
do to support it and you mentioned the
people in in the papers that support
your work yes for somebody that wants to
be one of those people let's talk about
exactly what they have to do to be a
supporter well somebody
um uh they say well I have my own
Foundation I've got people that have
their own foundations Travis
christopherson's foundation for cancer
metabolic therapies a lot of people like
to donate uh to his foundation that
supports our work he has a 503
Foundation that that collects money
specifically for our work and we have a
a grant system through Boston College
that uh gets money from Travis's
Foundation we we have money from the
childhood a British child UK
UK Foundation from England childhood
that's a foundation and then and then we
have people
um who uh
um give us money or they give money
either to Travis or they give money from
their own foundations uh to our work and
a lot of people just donate to the
university a lot of people just there's
a lot of ways that that I I was very I
was very surprised the other day uh we
got a nice donation from
um the uh a Penitentiary can you believe
this uh I wasn't uh folks in a in a in a
in a Penitentiary that rallied the money
together uh to support our work at
Boston College I said uh I said wow this
is really exciting so I I said to I said
to my my students uh I I think we're
going to um acknowledge uh that that
Foundation yeah I'll tell you what it is
it's called the Delaware County Special
deputies benevolent fund
all right so I said wow it wasn't for a
lot of money but I'll tell you the next
paper I published will use that money
and I'll put the fund on there uh as
well deputies from the Delaware County
Special deputies been benevolent fund so
it was from a jail of some sort you know
and uh so okay great uh and if someone
wants to to give us more money we'll put
my but the issue is is that we are good
to acknowledge those folks that support
our research by uh in the acknowledgment
section of all of our published papers
we have who helped us and that tells you
that the money that you give me is
actually going out to broadcast what
we're doing to the scientific community
well Professor sea freed we're going to
link everything up in the show notes
round two has been a pleasure hopefully
over the years you'll continue to do the
work you do let's hope we don't need a
round three well yeah we want to take
care of this in two rounds well you know
we have I think we have things taken
care of to this point but you're going
to continue to do this work for years to
come and as new papers get published new
information becomes
public and these clinics start to open
hopefully we can come back on have
another conversation but let's let's
let's come back after we have successful
clinics turning out people uh that are
healthy and well uh and are living far
longer than they should have and and
have them come on and why don't we have
those folks come on and tell them I did
metabolic therapy I should have been
dead look at me today
to this point we focused on treatment of
cancer for somebody that has cancer and
they want to take an alternative path
what I want to end on with you here is
for somebody who is in quote unquote
healthy shape right now
and what I want to do is pick your brain
as somebody who knows the physiology of
cancer what we can do preventatively
to live a healthy lifestyle and
hopefully not get to the point where we
have cancer and have to make treatment
decisions that we were talking about
earlier
yeah well everybody likes to talk about
it nobody likes to do it
um prevention of cancer is
[Music]
um
is something it's very difficult in our
in our lifestyle in the western
lifestyle
uh to everybody's roll of the dice uh
with the hope that they're not going to
get cancer
it's diet and lifestyle
and our culture that is ultimately
responsible for us getting cancer and
not only cancer heart disease type 2
diabetes obesity
I mean these things are all linked to
the same problem which is poor diet and
lack of exercise
um if people were really interested in
cancer prevention if people were really
interested in cancer prevention we would
not have an obesity epidemic okay we
would not have an obesity epidemic if
people were really interested in cancer
prevention if obesity is a major risk
factor for getting cancer why is why do
we have an obesity epidemic all right
simple question
um why do we have a a epidemic of type 2
diabetes if people were really
interested in preventing cancer because
diabetes and obesity and all these
things are all linked making you at a
higher risk for getting cancer because
our diet and lifestyle is preventing us
from the prevention strategy right I
mean
uh I mean look at look at the fast food
that we have I mean you don't even have
to get out of the car and they hand you
the food through the window uh there's
even no exercise to get out our
ancestors had to work very very hard to
get food yeah in the in the in the
Paleolithic period uh we had to hunt
down and kill animals and skin them and
cook them I mean this took a lot of
energy right and there's no carbohydrate
in that stuff either so uh our
Aboriginal populations had no cancer
the great humanitarian physician Albert
Schweitzer went into the jungles of
Africa and said most people never had
cancer even or what it was Eskimos
originally when they were first looked
at didn't have cancer I don't need any
any any they're really you know whales
and blubber and kinds of stuff and they
never had cancer chimpanzees are closest
relatives in biological terms and they
don't never been a documented case of
breast cancer in a chimpanzee and yet
now breast cancer has replaced heart
disease as the number one killer of
American women and what the hell is
going on here so the chimp is living on
a diet lifestyle that he had when he
first evolved as a species we are not we
are far far from how we evolved as a
species we are now in an environment
rich with poorly nutritious Foods very
little exercise we're sitting in front
of computers we're sitting in cars
um okay there's your risk so you want
how do you prevent this well we're all
not going to go back and live in a cave
so so the issue is
um you've got to know what is the risk
factor for cancer and you got to know
how to prevent it and as I said if we
have an obesity epidemic that message is
not getting out as a matter of fact
they're blaming our genes on obesity
our genes are doing exactly what they
evolve to do store energy because we
starve for most of our existence on this
planet we need to have a good and good
physiology to store as much energy
because we had to go through famine we
had to go through a lot of restrictions
his harsh environments and we needed
that energy and those genes evolved over
tens of thousands of years to allow us
to store energy okay now we're an
environment where this poorly nutritious
carbs everywhere people are getting fat
and they're getting cancer and they're
getting all these other kinds of
diseases so if people were really
interested in prevention there would be
no no obesity epidemic the fact that we
have the epidemic means that nobody's
interested and prevented not nobody many
people in our society are not interested
in prevention once you get cancer what
are you going to do for me
not that difficult
well I think the big challenge is that
to prevent cancer you have to go against
a lot of the ways that Society is
naturally going these days and you have
to do your own research and live an
alternative quote-unquote lifestyle to
try and get back like you said to the
Paleolithic times and
there's a lot against us and it does
take a lot of effort to figure it out
and a lot of conflicting information for
people that do decide to get in and do
the learning so I do feel for people and
I hope
having these conversations like I do
help clarify for people and
I do what I can to to help clarify and
for myself and for others and I
appreciate all you're doing in the world
too and this conversation was fantastic
we covered a lot and I really appreciate
all the work you're putting out into the
world and I wish you the best thank you
thank you and you have to realize that
the research that we do here at Boston
College is all dependent on private
foundation and philanthropy so
um you know this is the more I
pre-clinical evidence that I get to
support this the more it goes into the
clinics and the more we can help people
like that so uh people can always help
us out by supporting some of the
foundations that yeah and you can find
those foundations and the Publications
that we I encourage everybody to read
our papers they're open access so you
don't have to go to a library you can
get them right online you know let them
read the papers and see what they think
if people feel it's good they can email
me back and say I got something better
you might want to might want to try in
your clinical system sometimes I do and
sometimes I get information like that
too well we're to link up for how people
can donate below and we'll link up some
of the papers and again thank you for
coming on the show all right Jesse thank
you very much
now that you're finished with Dr
Seyfried you're going to want to head
over here and catch my chat with Fred
where he shares his cancer success story
I'll see you over there so I'm in front
of the doctor and he tells me okay I
have bad news it's a it's a it's a
cancer the more I looked into it the
more I realized that there is a huge gap
me